The Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Responsibilities of Landlords and
Tenants Act, 2017
Act 42 of 2017

Keyword(s):
Agreement, Landlord, Premises, Rent Court, Rent Payable, Tenant
Amendments appended: 39 of 2018, 22 of 2019, 3 of 2020, 19 of 2022

DISCLAIMER: This document is being furnished to you for your information by PRS
Legislative Research (PRS). The contents of this document have been obtained from sources
PRS believes to be reliable. These contents have not been independently verified, and PRS
makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy, completeness or correctness. In
some cases the Principal Act and/or Amendment Act may not be available. Principal Acts
may or may not include subsequent amendments. For authoritative text, please contact the
relevant state department concerned or refer to the latest government publication or the
gazette notification. Any person using this material should take their own professional and
legal advice before acting on any information contained in this document. PRS or any persons
connected with it do not accept any liability arising from the use of this document. PRS or any
persons connected with it shall not be in any way responsible for any loss, damage, or distress
to any person on account of any action taken or not taken on the basis of this document.

300

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
THE TAMIL NADU REGULATION OF RIGHTS AND RESPONSIBILITIES OF
LANDLORDS AND TENANTS ACT, 2017
Arrangement of sections
CHAPTER I.
PRELIMINARY.
Sections
1.

Short title, extent and commencement.

2.

Definitions.

3.

Act not to apply to certain premises.
CHAPTER II.
TENANCY.

4.

Tenancy Agreement.

5.

Period of tenancy.

6.

Inheritability of tenancy.

7.

Restriction on subletting.
CHAPTER III.
RENT.

8.

Rent payable.

9.

Revision of rent.

10. Rent Authority to fix or revise rent.
11. Security deposit.
CHAPTER IV.
OBLIGATIONS OF LANDLORD AND TENANT.
12. One set of original agreement to be given to the tenant.
13. Receipt to be given for rent paid.
14. Deposit of rent with the Rent Authority.
15. Repair and maintenance of property.
16. Tenant to look after the premises.
17. Entry with notice.
18. Information about the property manager.
19. Role and responsibilities of property manager.
20. Cutting off or withholding essential supply or service.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
CHAPTER V.
REPOSSESSION OF THE PREMISES BY THE LANDLORD.
21. Repossession of the premises by the landlord.
22. Recovery of possession for occupation.
23. Compensation in case of non vacancy.
24. Refund of advance rent by the landlord.
25. Payment of rent during eviction proceedings.
26. Permission to build additional structures.
27. Special provision regarding vacant sites.
28. Vacant possession to landlord.
29. Provision regarding notice of giving up possession by the tenant.
CHAPTER VI.
RENT COURTS AND RENT TRIBUNALS.
30. Appeals.
31. Constitution of Rent Court.
32. Constitution of Rent Tribunals.
33. Jurisdiction of Rent Court.
34. Procedure of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal.
35. Powers of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal.
36. Appeal to Rent Tribunal.
37. Execution of the order.
CHAPTER VII.
APPOINTMENT OF RENT AUTHORITIES, THEIR POWERS AND FUNCTIONS.
38. Appointment of Rent Authority.
39. Power and Procedure of Rent Authority.
CHAPTER VIII.
MISCELLANEOUS.
40. Jurisdiction of civil courts barred in respect of certain matters.
41. Court-fees.
42. Members, etc. to be public servants.
43. Members, etc. to be under the control of High Court.
44. Protection of action taken in good faith.
45. Power to make rules.
46. Power to remove difficulties.
47. Repeal and savings.
First Schedule
Second Schedule
Third Schedule

301

302

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent of the
Governor on the 4th August 2017 and is hereby published for general information:ACT No. 42 OF 2017.
An Act to establish a framework for the regulation of rent and to balance the rights
and responsibilities of landlords and tenants and to provide fast adjudication
process for resolution of disputes, and matters connected therewith or incidental
thereto.
B E it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Sixty-eighth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
CHAPTER I.
PRELIMINARY.

Short title,
extent and
commencement.

1. (1) This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017.
(2) It shall extend to all urban areas of the State of Tamil Nadu.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may, by notification,
appoint and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act:
Provided that the Government may, by notification, exclude any area or units
or class of buildings from the operation of this Act or any provision thereof.

Definitions.

2.

In this Act, unless the context otherwise requires,—

(a) “agreement” or “tenancy agreement” means the written agreement
executed by the landlord and the tenant as required under this Act;
(b) “Government” means the State Government;
(c) “landlord” means a person who, for the time being is receiving, or is
entitled to receive, the rent of any premises, whether on his own account, or on
account of, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any other person or as a trustee,
guardian or receiver of any person or who would so receive the rent or be entitled
to receive the rent, if the premises were let to a tenant, and shall include his
successor-in-interest;
(d) “local authority” means,—
(i) a town panchayat or municipality constituted under the Tamil Nadu
District Municipalities Act, 1920;

Tamil Nadu
Act V of
1920.

(ii) a municipal corporation established under any law for the time being
in force; and
(iii) a cantonment board constituted under the Cantonments Act, 2006;

Central Act 41
of 2006.

(e) “person with disability” has the same meaning as assigned to it in
clause (s) of section 2 of the Rights of Persons with Disabilities Act, 2016;

Central Act 49
of 2016.

(f) “premises” means any building or part of a building which is, or is
intended to be, let separately for the purpose of residence or for commercial or
for educational use, except for industrial use and includes—
(i) the garden, grounds and out-houses, if any, appertaining to such
building or part of the building;
(ii) any fitting to such building or part of the building for the more
beneficial enjoyment thereof, but does not include hotel, lodging house, dharamshala
or inn, or the like;
(g) “prescribed” means prescribed in the rules made under this Act;

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

303

(h) “property manager” means a person or company who is employed by the
landlord to manage the premises and who represents the landlord in his dealings with
the tenant;
(i) “Rent Authority” means an officer appointed under section 38;
(j) “Rent Court” means a Rent Court constituted under section 31;
(k) “rent payable” in relation to any premises means the rent as per
section 8;
(l) “Rent Tribunal” means the Rent Tribunal constituted under

section 32;

(m) “Schedule” means the Schedule to this Act;
(n) “tenant” means a person by whom or on whose account or behalf the
rent of any premises is, or, but for a contract express or implied, would be payable
for any premises and includes any person occupying the premises as a sub-tenant
and also, any person continuing in possession after the termination of his tenancy
whether before or after the commencement of this Act; but shall not include any
person against whom any order or decree for eviction has been made;
(o) “Urban Area” means the areas that fall under the jurisdiction of either
the Municipal Corporation or the Municipality or the Town Panchayat or the Cantonment
Board, as the case may be.
3. Nothing in this Act shall apply to–
(a) any premises owned or promoted by the Central or State Government
or Local Authority or a Government undertaking or enterprise or a statutory body
or cantonment board;

Act not to
apply to
certain
premises.

(b) premises owned by a company, university or organization given on rent
to its employees as part of service contract;
(c) any premises owned by religious or charitable institutions as may be
specified by the Government, by notification;
Central Act 43
of 1995.
Central Act II
of 1882.

(d) any premises owned by Waqf registered under the Waqf Act, 1995 or
to any trust registered under the Indian Trusts Act, 1882;

(e) any other building or category of buildings specifically exempted in public
interest by the Government, by notification:
Provided that any owner of the premises falling under clauses (a) to (d) wishes
that the tenancy agreement entered into by them be regulated under the provisions
of this Act, they may inform the Rent Authority of their desire to do so at the time
of information of the tenancy agreement under section 4 of this Act.
CHAPTER II.
TENANCY.
4. (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, no person shall, after the commencement of this Act, let or
take on rent any premises except by an agreement in writing, which shall be
informed to the Rent Authority by the landlord and tenant jointly, in the form specified
in the First Schedule.
(2) Where, in relation to a tenancy created before the commencement of this
Act,—
(a) an agreement in writing was already entered into, it shall be informed
to the Rent Authority;
(b) no agreement in writing was entered into, the landlord and the tenant
shall enter into an agreement in writing with regard to that tenancy, and inform the
Rent Authority, in the form specified in the First Schedule:

Tenancy
Agreement.

304

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
Provided that where the landlord and the tenant fail to present jointly a copy of
tenancy agreement under clause (a) or fail to reach an agreement under clause (b),
such landlord and the tenant shall separately file the particulars about such tenancy.
(3) Every agreement referred to in sub-section (1) or required to be executed
under sub-section (2) shall be in such manner and within such period as may be
prescribed.
(4) The Rent Authority, after receiving such information about tenancy
agreement, shall register the agreement and provide a registration number to the
parties.
(5) Information provided under sub-section (1) and (2) shall be taken as
evidence of facts relating to tenancy and matters connected therewith and in its
absence, any statement in the agreement shall not be received as evidence of the
facts in any court of law.
(6) The Rent Authority shall upload the details of all tenancies along with
the registration number provided under sub-section (4), in the form and manner
as may be prescribed, on its website within fifteen days of the allotment of the
registration number.

Period of
tenancy.

5. (1) All tenancies entered into after the commencement of this Act shall be
for a period as agreed between the landlord and the tenant and as specified in
the tenancy agreement.
(2) The tenant may approach the landlord for renewal or extension of the
tenancy, within the period agreed to in the tenancy agreement, prior to the end of
tenancy period and if agreeable to the landlord may enter into a new tenancy
agreement with the landlord on mutually agreed terms and conditions.
(3) If a tenancy for a fixed term ends and has not been renewed or the
premises have not been vacated by the tenant at the end of such tenancy, the tenancy
shall be deemed to be renewed on a month-to-month basis on the same terms
and conditions as were in the expired tenancy agreement, for a maximum period
of six months.

Inheritability of
tenancy.

6. (1) Save as provided in sub-section (2), the tenancy shall cease immediately
after the death of the tenant.
(2) In the event of the death of a tenant, the right of tenancy of residential
and non-residential premises shall devolve for the remaining period of tenancy to
his successors in the following order:—
(a) spouse;
(b) sons/unmarried daughters;
(c) parents;
(d) daughter-in-law being the widow of a predeceased son:
Provided that the successor had been ordinarily living or working in the premises
with the deceased tenant upto his death.

Restriction on
subletting.

7. (1) After the commencement of this Act, no tenant shall, without the previous
consent in writing of the landlord,–
(a) sublet whole or part of the premises held by him as a tenant;
(b) transfer or assign his rights in the tenancy agreement or any part thereof.
(2) Where the premises are sublet as provided in sub-section (1), the tenant
shall inform the landlord the date of commencement or termination of sub-tenancy,
as the case may be, within one month of the commencement or termination.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

305

CHAPTER III.
RENT.
8. The rent payable in relation to a premises shall be,—

Rent payable.

(a) in case of new tenancies entered into after the commencement of this Act,
the rent agreed to between the landlord and the tenant at the commencement of the
tenancy;
(b) in case of tenancies entered into before the commencement of this Act,
after the expiry of twelve months from the commencement of this Act, rent payable
shall be as provided in clause (a), and—
(i) the landlord shall intimate the tenant two months prior to the expiry
of the said twelve months about the revision in rent, if required;
(ii) in the absence of an agreement between the landlord and the tenant
on the rent payable as provided in clause (a), the landlord shall have the option
to terminate the tenancy as per clause (a) of sub-section (2) of section 21.
9. (1) Revision of rent between the landlord and the tenant shall be as per
the terms set out in the tenancy agreement.

Revision of
rent.

(2) Save as agreed in the agreement, the landlord shall give a notice in
writing three months before the revised rent becomes due.
(3) If a tenant who has been given notice of an intended increase of rent
under sub-section (2), fails to give the landlord notice of termination of tenancy,
the tenant shall be deemed to have accepted whatever rent increase has been
proposed by the landlord.
(4) In case the premises has been let for a fixed term, rent may not be
increased during the currency of the tenancy period unless the amount of increase
or method of working out the increase is expressly set out in the tenancy agreement.
(5) No tenant shall directly or indirectly sublet or assign, whole or part of
the premises for a rent that is higher than the rent or the proportionate rent charged
by the landlord to the tenant.
(6) Where the landlord, after the commencement of tenancy and with
agreement with the tenant has incurred expenditure on account of improvement,
addition or structural alteration in the premises occupied by the tenant, which does
not include repairs necessary to be carried out under section 15, the landlord may
increase the rent of the premises by an amount as agreed between the landlord
and the tenant, prior to the commencement of the work and such increase in rent
shall become effective from one month after the completion of work.
(7) Where after the rent of a premises has been agreed or fixed, there has
been a decrease or diminution or deterioration of accommodation or housing
services in the premises, the tenant may claim a reduction in the rent and may
approach the Rent Authority in case of conflict.
(8) The landlord may, either restore the premises and the housing services
as at the commencement of tenancy or agree for a reduction in rent.
10. The Rent Authority, on an application made by the landlord or tenant, shall
fix or revise, as the case may be, the rent and other charges payable by the tenant
and also fix the date from which the revised rent becomes payable.

Rent Authority
to fix or
revise rent.

11. (1) Save an agreement to the contrary, it shall be unlawful to charge a
security deposit in excess of three times the monthly rent.

Security
deposit.

(2) The security deposit shall be refunded to the tenant within one month
after vacation of the premises, after making due deduction of any liability of the
tenant.

306

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
CHAPTER IV.
OBLIGATIONS OF LANDLORD AND TENANT.

Agreement to
be given to
the tenant.

12. After the tenancy agreement has been signed by both the landlord and tenant,
the landlord shall give one original signed and registered agreement to the tenant
within fifteen days of the agreement being signed by them in the manner as may
be prescribed.

Receipt to be
given for
rent paid.

13. (1) Every tenant shall pay rent and other charges payable within the stipulated
period as in the tenancy agreement.
(2) Every tenant who makes payment of rent or other charges payable or
advance towards such rent or other charges to his landlord, shall be entitled, against
acknowledgement, to obtain forthwith from the landlord or his property manager,
a written receipt for the amount paid to him, signed by the landlord or his property
manager.

Deposit of
rent with the
Rent
Authority.

14. (1) Where the landlord does not accept any rent and other charges payable
or refuses to give a receipt, the rent and other charges shall be sent to the landlord
by postal money order or any other method as may be prescribed consecutively
for two months, and if the landlord does not accept the rent and other charges within
the said period, then, the tenant shall deposit the same with the Rent Authority.
(2) Whenever there is bona fide doubt about the person or persons to whom
the rent is payable, the tenant shall deposit such rent and other charges with the
Rent Authority.
(3) On deposit of the rent and other charges, the Rent Authority shall
investigate the case and pass an order based on facts of the case.
(4) The withdrawal of rent and other charges deposited under sub-section
(1) or sub-section (2), as the case may be, shall not operate as an admission
against the person withdrawing it to the correctness of rent or any other fact stated
by the tenant.
(5) Any rent and charges not withdrawn for five years by any person entitled
to withdraw shall be forfeited by the Government.

Repair and
maintenance
of property.

15. (1) Notwithstanding any contract in writing to the contrary, the landlord and
the tenant shall be bound to keep the premises in as good a condition as at the
commencement of the tenancy, except for normal wear and tear, and shall be
responsible for the respective repairs and maintenance as specified in the Second
Schedule.
(2) In case of common facilities shared among the tenants or with the
landlord, the respective responsibilities of each tenant and landlord shall be specified
in the tenancy agreement.
(3) In the event of tenant’s refusal to carry out the scheduled or agreed
repairs, the landlord shall get the repairs done and deduct the amount from the
security deposit.
(4) In case the landlord refuses to carry out the scheduled or agreed repairs,
the tenant can get the work done and deduct the same from monthly rent:
Provided that in no case will the deduction from rent in any one month exceed
fifty per cent of the agreed rent for one month.
(5) In case the premises is uninhabitable without the repairs and the
landlord has refused to carry out the required repairs, after being called upon to
get the repairs done in writing by the tenant, the tenant shall have the right to
abandon the premises after giving landlord fifteen days notice in writing or by
approaching the Rent Authority.

Tenant to look
after the
premises.

16. During the tenancy, the tenant shall—
(a) not intentionally or negligently damage the premises or permit such
damage;

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

307

(b) notify the landlord of any damage as soon as possible;
(c) take reasonable care of the premises and its contents and keep it
reasonably habitable having regard to its condition at the commencement of tenancy
and the normal incidence of living.
17. (1) A landlord or the property manager may enter a premises in accordance
with written notice given to the tenant at least twenty-four hours before the time of
entry under the following circumstances, namely:-

Entry with
notice.

(a) to carry out repairs or replacement or do or get work done in the
premises;
(b) to carry out an inspection of the premises for the purpose of
determining whether the premises is in a habitable state;
(c) for any other reasonable reason for entry specified in the tenancy
agreement.
(2) The written notice shall specify the reason for entry, the day and time
of entry between 7.00 A.M. to 8.00 P.M.
18. In case the landlord has hired a property manager, the landlord shall provide
the tenant, the following information, namely:—
(a) property manager’s name;

Information
about the
property
manager.

(b) the proof that he is agent of the landlord and employed by the landlord;
(c) if the property manager is a company, name of the company, employee
who can be contacted in relation to the tenancy agreement.
19. The functions of the property manager may include the following, namely:—
(a) collection of rent against receipt;
(b) getting essential repairs done on behalf of the landlord;

Role and
responsibilities
of property
manager.

(c) inspection of the premises, from time to time;
(d) giving notices to tenant for—
(i) proper maintenance of the premises;
(ii) delay in payment of rent;
(iii) revision of rent;
(iv) vacation of premises; and
(v) renewal of tenancy;
(e) help in resolution of disputes among tenants and between landlord and
tenant;
(f) any other matters relating to tenancy.
20. (1) No landlord or tenant either by himself or through any person shall cutoff or withhold any essential supply or service in the premises occupied by the tenant
or the landlord.
(2) In case of contravention of sub-section (1) and on complaint from the
tenant or the landlord, as the case may be, the Rent Authority, after examining the
matter, may pass an interim order directing the restoration of supply of essential
services immediately pending the inquiry referred to in sub-section (3).
(3) The Rent Authority shall conduct an inquiry against the complaint made
by the landlord or the tenant, as the case may be, and complete the inquiry within
one month of filing of such complaint.
(4) The Rent Authority may also levy a penalty on the person responsible
for cutting off or withholding the essential supply, which may extend to an amount
of loss or damage as may be prescribed.

Cutting off or
withholding
essential
supply or
service.

308

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(5) The Rent Authority may direct that compensation be paid to the landlord
or tenant if it finds that the complaint was made frivolously or vexaciously.
Explanation.—For the purpose of this section, essential services includes supply
of water, electricity, lights in passages, lifts and on staircases, conservancy, parking,
communication links, sanitary services and the like.
CHAPTER V.
REPOSSESSION OF THE PREMISES BY THE LANDLORD.

Repossession
of the
premises by
the landlord.

21. (1) A tenant shall not be evicted during the continuance of tenancy agreement
except in accordance with the provisions of sub-section (2).
(2) The Rent Court may, on an application made to it in the manner as may
be prescribed, make an order for the recovery of possession of the premises on
one or more of the following grounds, namely:—
(a) that the landlord and tenant have failed to agree to the rent payable
under section 8;
(b) that the tenant has not paid the arrears in full of rent payable and
other charges payable as specified in sub-section (1) of section 13 for two months,
including interest for delayed payment as may be specified for in the tenancy
agreement or as prescribed, as the case may be, within one month of notice of
demand for the arrears of such rent and all charges payable being served on him
by the landlord in the manner provided in sub-section (4) of section 106 of the
Transfer of Property Act, 1882:
Provided that no order for eviction of the tenant on account of default of payment
of rent shall be passed, if the tenant makes payment to the landlord or deposits
with the Rent Court all arrears of rent including interest within one month of notice
being served on him:
Provided further that this relief shall not be available again, if the tenant defaults
in payments of rent consecutively for two months in any one year subsequent to
getting relief once;
(c) that the tenant has, after the commencement of this Act, parted with the
possession of whole or any part of the premises without obtaining the written
consent of the landlord;
(d) that the tenant has continued misuse of the premises even after receipt
of notice from the landlord to stop such misuse.
Explanation.—For the purpose of this clause, “misuse of premises” means
encroachment of additional space by the tenant or use of premises which causes
public nuisance or causes damage to the property or is detrimental to the interest
of the landlord or for an immoral or illegal purposes;
(e) that the premises or any part thereof are required by the landlord for
carrying out any repairs or building or rebuilding or additions or alterations or
demolition, which cannot be carried out without the premises being vacated:
Provided that the re-entry of the tenant after such repairs, building, rebuilding,
addition, alteration or demolition shall be allowed only when it has been mutually
agreed to between the landlord and the tenant and the new tenancy agreement has
been submitted with the Rent Authority:
Provided further that re-entry of the tenant shall not be allowed in the absence
of such mutual agreement submitted with the Rent Authority and also in cases where
the tenant has been evicted under the orders of the Rent Court;
(f) that the premises or any part thereof are required by the landlord for
carrying out any repairs, building, rebuilding, additions, alterations or demolition,
for change of its use as a consequence of change of land use by the competent
authority;

Central Act
IV of 1882.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

309

(g) that the premises let for residential or non-residential purpose are
required by the landlord for occupation for residential or non-residential purposes
for himself or for any member of his family or for any person for whose benefit
the premises were held and the landlord or such person is not in possession of
any suitable accommodation within the same urban area;
(h) that the tenant has given written notice to quit and in consequence
of that notice, the landlord has contracted to sell the accommodation or has taken
any other step, as a result of which his interests would seriously suffer if he is
not put in possession of that accommodation.
(3) In any proceedings for eviction under clause (e) of sub-section (2), the
Rent Court may allow eviction from only a part of the premises, if the landlord is
agreeable to the same.
22. (1) Where an order for recovery of possession of any premises is made
on the ground specified in clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 21, the landlord
shall be entitled to obtain possession thereof within a period of one month in the
case of residential premises and two months in the case of
non-residential
premises from the date of passing of eviction order:

Recovery of
possession
for
occupation.

Provided that in case of premises let by category of landlords specified in the
Third Schedule or by their spouse or dependent children (including dependents of
pre-deceased personnel in armed forces), the landlord shall be entitled to obtain
possession immediately after passing of the eviction order.
(2) Where a landlord recovers possession of any premises from the tenant
under clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 21, the landlord shall not, except with
the permission of the Rent Court obtained in the manner as may be prescribed,
re-let whole or part of the premises within three years from the date of obtaining
such possession, and if the landlord re-lets his premises without permission of
the Rent Court, the Rent Court may levy a penalty on the landlord which may extend
to ten thousand rupees.
23. A landlord is entitled to compensation of double the monthly rent for the
use and occupation of a premises by a tenant who does not vacate the unit after
his tenancy has been terminated by order, notice or agreement, as the case may
be.

Compensation
incase of
non
vacancy.

24. (1) Where a landlord exercises the right of recovery of possession under
sub-section (2) of section 21, and he had received any rent or any other payment
in advance from the tenant, he shall, before recovery of possession, refund to the
tenant such an amount after deducting the rent and other charges due to him.

Refund of
advance
rent by the
landlord.

(2) If any default is made in making any refund, the landlord shall be liable
to pay simple interest at such rate as may be prescribed from time to time on the
amount which he has omitted or failed to refund.
25. In any proceedings for recovery of possession on any ground other than
that referred to in clause (a) or clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 21, the tenant
contests the claim for eviction, the landlord may, at any stage of proceedings, apply
to the Rent Court to direct the tenant to pay to the landlord rent payable as under
section 8 and the Rent Court may order the tenant to make such payment as agreed
regularly to the landlord by the tenth of the month and all other charges due from
the tenant along with penal charges, if any, due to delay in the same manner as
provided in sub-section (1) of section 13.

Payment of
rent during
eviction
proceedings.

26. Where the landlord proposes to make any improvement in or construct any
additional structure on any building which has been let to a tenant and the tenant
refuses to allow the landlord to make such improvement or construct such additional
structure and the Rent Court on an application made to it in this behalf by the
landlord is satisfied that the landlord is ready and willing to commence the work,
the Rent Court may permit the landlord to do such work and may make such other
order as it may think fit.

Permission to
build
additional
structures.

310
Special
provision
regarding
vacant sites.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
27. Notwithstanding anything contained in section 21, where any premises which
have been let comprising of vacant land, upon which it is permissible under the
municipal laws, for the time being in force, to erect any building, whether for
residence or for any other purpose, and the landlord proposing to erect such building
is unable to obtain possession of the same from the tenant by agreement with him
and the Rent Court, on an application made to it in this behalf by the landlord, is
satisfied that the landlord is ready and willing to commence the work and that the
severance of the vacant land from the rest of the premises shall not cause undue
hardship to the tenant, the Rent Court may—
(a) direct such severance;
(b) place the landlord in possession of the vacant land;
(c) determine the rent payable by the tenant in respect of the rest of the
premises; and
(d) make such other orders as it thinks fit in the circumstances of the case.

Vacant
possession
to landlord.

28. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, where the interest of a landlord in any premises is determined for any reason
whatsoever and any order is made by the Rent Court under this Act for the recovery
of possession of such premises, the order shall, subject to the provision of subsection (3) of section 21, be binding on all occupants who may be in occupation
of the premises and vacant possession thereof shall be given to the landlord by
evicting all such occupants therefrom.

Provision
regarding
notice of
giving up
possession
by the
tenant.

29. (1) Every tenant who is in possession of any premises to which this Act
applies shall observe all the terms and conditions of the tenancy agreement and
shall be entitled to the benefits thereof.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other law for the
time being in force, the tenant may give up possession of the premises on giving
such notice as is required under the tenancy agreement and in the absence of any
stipulation relating to such notice, the tenant shall give notice to the landlord of
at least one month before giving up possession of the premises.
CHAPTER VI.
RENT COURTS AND RENT TRIBUNALS.

Appeals.

30. (1) An appeal shall lie against the order of the Rent Authority made under
this Act to the Rent Court having territorial jurisdiction.
(2) An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be preferred within thirty days from
the date of the order made by the Rent Authority.

Constitution of
Rent Court.

31. (1) The Government may, by notification, constitute such number of Rent
Court in as many urban areas as may be deemed necessary by it.
(2) Where two or more Rent Courts are constituted for any urban area, the
Government may, by general or special order, regulate the distribution of business
among them.
(3) A Rent Court may consist of one or more members (hereinafter referred
to as the Presiding Officer) to be appointed by the Government in consultation with
the High Court.
(4) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as Presiding Officer of the
Rent Court unless he is a District Judge of the Tamil Nadu State Judicial Service.
(5) The Government may, in consultation with the High Court, authorize the
Presiding Officer of one Rent Court to discharge the functions of the Presiding Officer
of another Rent Court also.

Constitution of
Rent
Tribunals.

32. (1) The Government may, by notification, constitute such number of Rent
Tribunals at such places as may be deemed necessary by it and notify a Rent
Tribunal as Principal Rent Tribunal, where more than one Tribunal is constituted.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

311

(2) The Rent Tribunal shall be a multi-member Tribunal headed by a
Principal Appellate Member, and the senior most judge shall function as Principal
Appellate Member and shall have the power to transfer appeal cases from one
member of the Appellate Tribunal to another member whenever deemed necessary,
and similarly the Principal Appellate Tribunal may, on an application or suo motu,
transfer a suit from one Rent Court to other Rent Court, and all the members of
Rent Tribunal shall be appointed by the Government in consultation with the High
Court.
(3) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as Principal Member of the
Rent Tribunal unless he has been a Judge of the High Court.
33. Notwithstanding anything contained in any other law for the time being in
force, in the areas to which this Act extends, only the Rent Court and no Civil Court
shall have jurisdiction, except the jurisdiction of Rent Authority under section 39,
to hear and decide the applications relating to disputes between landlord and tenant
and matters connected with and ancillary thereto covered under this Act:
Central Act
IV of 1882.
Central Act
IX of 1872.

Central Act
V of 1908.

Provided that the Rent Court shall, in deciding such applications relating to
tenancies and premises, give due regard to the provisions of the Transfer of Property
Act, 1882, the Indian Contract Act, 1872 or any other substantive law applicable to
such matter in the same manner, in which such law would have been applied had
the dispute been brought before a Civil Court by way of suit.
34. (1) Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, the Rent Court
and the Rent Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by the Code
of Civil Procedure, 1908, but shall be guided by the principles of natural justice
and shall have power to regulate their own procedure, and the Rent Court shall
follow the following procedure, namely –
(a) the landlord or tenant may file an application before the Rent Court
accompanied by affidavits and documents, if any;
(b) the Rent Court then shall issue notice to the opposite party,
accompanied by copies of application, affidavits and documents;
(c) the opposite party shall file a reply accompanied by affidavits and
documents, if any, after serving a copy of the same to the applicant;
(d) the applicant may file a rejoinder, if any, after serving the copy to
the opposite party;
(e) the Rent Court shall then fix a date of hearing and may hold such
summary inquiry as it deems necessary.
(2) In every case, before the Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal the evidence
of a witness shall be given by affidavit. However, the Rent Court and the Rent
Tribunal, where it appears to it that it is necessary in the interest of justice to call
a witness for examination or cross-examination, such witness can be produced and
may order attendance for examination or cross-examination of such a witness.

Central Act V
of 1908.

Jurisdiction of
Rent Court.

(3) The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 regarding service
of summons shall be applicable mutatis mutandis for service of notice by the Rent
Court or Rent Tribunal.
(4) Every application or appeal, shall be, as far as possible in the forms
as may be prescribed.
(5) The Rent Court shall not ordinarily allow more than three adjournments
at the request of a party throughout the proceedings and in case it decides to do
so, it shall record the reasons for the same in writing and order the party requesting
adjournment to pay the reasonable cost.
(6) (a) All applications under clauses (a), (b), (c), (e), (f) and (h) of
sub-section (2) of section 21 shall be decided within 90 days of filing of application
to the Rent Court.

Procedure of
Rent Court
and Rent
Tribunal.

312

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(b) Applications under clauses (d) and (g) of sub-section (2) of section
21 shall be decided within 30 days of filing of application to the Rent Court.

Powers of
Rent Court
and Rent
Tribunal.

35. (1) The Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal, for the purpose of discharging
their functions under this Act, shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil
Court under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the purposes of,–

Central Act
V of 1908.

(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and examining
him on oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) issuing commissions for examination of the witnesses or documents;
(d) issuing commission for local investigation;
(e) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(f) dismissing an application or appeal for default or deciding it ex-parte;
(g) setting aside any order of dismissal of any application or appeal for
default or any other order passed by it ex-parte;
(h) execution of its order and decisions under this Act without reference
to any civil court;
(i) reviewing its orders and decisions;
(j) any other matter as may be prescribed.
(2) Any proceedings before the Rent Court or Rent Tribunal shall be deemed
to be a judicial proceedings within the meaning of section 193 and 228, and for
the purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code 1860 and the Rent Court and
the Rent Tribunal shall be deemed to be a civil court for the purposes of section
195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973.
(3) For the purpose of holding any inquiry or discharging any duty under
this Act, the Rent Court may –

Central Act
XLV of 1860.

Central Act
2 of 1974.

(a) after giving not less than twenty-four hours notice in writing, enter
and inspect or authorize any officer, subordinate to him, to enter and inspect, any
premises at any time between sunrise and sunset;
(b) by written order, require any person to produce for his inspection
such books or documents relevant to the inquiry, at such time and at such place
as may be specified in the order.
(4) The Rent Court may, if it thinks fit, appoint one or more persons having
special knowledge of the matter under consideration as an assessor or valuer to
advise it in the proceeding before it.
(5) Any clerical or arithmetical mistake in any order passed by the Rent Court
or any other error arising out of any accidental omission may, at any time, be
corrected by the Rent Court on an application received by it in this behalf from any
of the parties or otherwise.
(6) The Rent Court may exercise the powers of a Judicial Magistrate of First
Class for the recovery of the fine under the provisions of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973 and the Rent Court shall be deemed to be a Magistrate under
the said Code for the purposes of such recovery.
(7) An order made by a Rent Court or an order passed in appeal or revision,
or review under this Chapter shall be executable by the Rent Court as a decree
of a civil court and for this purpose, the Rent Court shall have the powers of a
civil court.
(8) The Rent Court may set aside any order passed ex-parte if the aggrieved
party files an application and satisfies it that notice was not duly served or that
he was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing when the case was called
for hearing.

Central Act
2 of 1974.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

313

(9) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every order made by
the Rent Court shall, subject to decision in appeal, be final and shall not be called
in question in any original suit, application or execution proceedings.
36. (1) From every final order passed by the Rent Court, an appeal shall lie
to the Rent Tribunal, within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the premises is
situated and such an appeal shall be filed within a period of thirty days from the
date of final order along with a copy of such final order.

Appeal to Rent
Tribunal.

(2) The Rent Tribunal, upon filing an appeal under sub-section (1) shall
serve notice, accompanied by copy of appeal to the respondent and fix a hearing
not later than thirty days from the date of service of notice of appeal on the
respondent and the appeal shall be disposed of within a period of one hundred
and twenty days from the date of service of notice of appeal on the respondent.
(3) Where the Rent Tribunal considers it necessary in the interest of arriving
at a just and proper decision, it may allow documents at any stage of the proceedings
in appeal, however, this facility would be available to the applicants only once during
the hearing.
(4) The Rent Tribunal may, in its discretion, pass such interlocutory order
during the pendency of the appeal, as it may deem fit.
(5) (a) While deciding the appeal, the Rent Tribunal, after recording reasons
therefor, confirm, set aside or modify the order passed by a Rent Court;
(b) The decision of the Rent Tribunal shall be final and no further appeal
or revision shall lie against the order.
(6) On application of any of the parties and after notice to the parties and
after hearing such of them as have desired to be heard, or of its own motion without
such notice, the Principal Rent Tribunal may, at any stage, transfer any case from
one Rent Court to any other Rent Court for disposal.
(7) Where any case has been transferred under sub-section (6), the Rent
Court to whom the case has been transferred subject to any special direction in
the order of transfer, proceed from the stage at which it was transferred.
37. (1) The Rent Court shall, on application of any party, execute in the manner
as may be prescribed, a final order of any other order passed under this Act by
adopting any one or more of the following modes, namely:—
(a) delivery of possession of the premises to the person in whose favour
the decision has been made;
(b) attachment and sale of the movable or immovable property of the
opposite party;
(c) attachment of any one or more bank accounts of the opposite party
and satisfaction of the amount of order to be paid from such account;
(d) appointing any advocate or any other competent person including
officers of the Rent Court or local administration or local body for the execution of
the order.
(2) The Rent Court may take the help from the local government or local
body or the local police for the execution of the final orders:
Provided that the help of police shall be obtained subject to payment of such
cost by the litigants as may be decided by the Rent Court.
(3) The Rent Court shall conduct the execution proceedings in relation to
a final order or any other order passed under this Act in summary manner and
dispose of the application for execution made under this section within 30 days
from the date of service of notice on opposite party.

Execution of
the order.

314

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
CHAPTER VII.
APPOINTMENT OF RENT AUTHORITIES,THEIR POWERS AND FUNCTIONS.

Appointment
of Rent
Authority.

38. The Collector shall, with the previous approval of the Government, appoint
an officer, not below the rank of Deputy Collector to be the Rent Authority for the
area within his jurisdiction to which this Act applies.

Power and
procedure of
Rent
Authority.

39. The Rent Authority shall have the same powers as are vested in Rent Court
under this Act, in any proceeding under sections 4, 9, 10, 14, 15 and 20 of the
Act. The procedure as laid in section 34 and 37 of the Act shall be followed in
disposal of such applications.
CHAPTER VIII.
MISCELLANEOUS.

Jurisdiction of
civil courts
barred
inrespect of
certain
matters.

40. (1) Save as otherwise provided in this Act, no civil court shall entertain any
suit or proceeding in so far as it relates to the provisions of this Act.

Court-fees.

41. (1) The provisions of the Tamil Nadu Court-fees and Suits Valuation Act,
1955 shall apply in respect of applications or appeals to be presented before the
Rent Court or Rent Tribunal or Rent Authority, as the case may be.

(2) The jurisdiction of the Rent Court shall be limited to tenancy agreement
submitted to it as per First Schedule and the question of title and ownership of
premises shall be beyond its jurisdiction.
Tamil Nadu
Act XIV of
1955.

(2) The applications for recovery of possession made to the Rent Court and
the memorandum of appeals presented before the Rent Tribunal shall be treated
as suits between the landlord and the tenant for the purposes of computation of
court-fees.
(3) The court-fees on the application filed before the Rent Authority shall
be same as of an interlocutory application presented in a civil court.
Members, etc.
to be public
servants.

42. All members of Rent Court, Rent Tribunal and Rent Authority appointed under
this Act shall be deemed to be public servants within the meaning of section 21
of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.

Members, etc.
to be under
the control of
High Court

43. The members of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal shall function under the
administrative and disciplinary control of the High Court.

Protection of
action taken
in good faith.

44. No suit, prosecution or other legal proceeding shall lie against any Rent
Court or Rent Tribunal or Rent Authority in respect of anything which is in good
faith done or intended to be done in pursuance of this Act.

Power to
make rules.

45. (1) The Government may, by notification, make rules for carrying out all or
any of the purposes of this Act.
(2) (a) All rules made under this Act shall be published in the Tamil Nadu
Government Gazette, and unless they are expressed to come into force on a
particular day, shall come into force on the day on which they are so published.
(b) All notifications issued under this Act shall, unless
they
are
expressed to come into force on a particular day, come into force on the day
on which they are published.
(3) Every rule made or notification or order issued under this Act shall, as
soon as possible, after it is made or issued, be placed on the table of the Legislative
Assembly, and if, before the expiry of the session in which it is so placed or the
next session, the Legislative Assembly makes any modification in any such rule
or notification or order or the Legislative Assembly decides that the rule or notification
or order should not be made or issued, the rule or notification or order shall
thereafter have effect only in such modified form or be of no effect, as the case

Central Act
XLV of
1860.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

315

may be, so, however, that any such modification or annulment shall be without
prejudice to the validity of anything previously done under that rule or notification
or order.
46. If any difficulty arises in giving effect to the provisions of this Act, the
Government may, as occasion requires, by order, not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Act, do anything which appears to be necessary or expedient for the purpose
of removing the difficulty:

Power to
remove
difficulties.

Provided that no such order shall be made after the expiry of two years from
the date of commencement of this Act.
Tamil Nadu
Act 18 of
1960.

47. (1) The Tamil Nadu Buildings (Lease and Rent Control) Act, 1960 is hereby
repealed.
(2) Notwithstanding such repeal and subject to the provisions of this Act,
all cases and other proceedings under the said Act pending, at the commencement
of this Act, shall be continued and disposed of in accordance with the provisions
of the said Act, as if the said Act had continued in force and this Act had not been
passed:
Provided that the plaintiff within a period of 180 days of coming into force of
this Act shall be entitled to withdraw any suit or appeal or any other proceeding
pending under the repealed Act with liberty to file fresh application in respect of
the subject matter of such suit or appeal or any other proceeding under and in
accordance with the provisions of this Act, and for the purposes of limitation, such
application if it is filed within a period of 270 days from the commencement of this
Act be deemed to have been filed on the date of filing of the suit which was
withdrawn and in case of withdrawal of appeal or other proceedings on the date
on which the suit was filed out of which such appeal or proceeding originated.

Repeal and
savings.

316

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
THE FIRST SCHEDULE.
(See section 4)
FORM FOR INFORMATION OF TENANCY.
To,
The Rent Authority
___________________
___________________ (Address)
1.

Name and Address of the Landlord

2.

Name and Address of the Property Manager (if any)

3.

Name(s) and Address of the Tenant, including email id and contact
details
:

4.

Description of previous tenancy, if any :

5.

Description of premises let to the tenant including appurtenant land,
if any
:

6.

Date from which possession is given to the tenant

7.

Rent payable as in section 8

8.

Furniture and other equipment provided to the tenant

9.

Other charges payable :
(a) Electricity

:

(b) Water

:

:
:

:

:
:

(c) Extra furnishing, fittings and fixtures :
(d) Other services

:

10. Attach rent/lease agreement, if any

:

11. Duration of tenancy (Period for which let)

Name and Signature
of Landlord

:

Name and Signature
of Tenant

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
THE SECOND SCHEDULE.
[See section 15 (1)]
DIVISION OF MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY BETWEEN
THE LANDLORD AND THE TENANTS.
As per section 15, the landlord shall be responsible for repairs relating to
matters falling under Part A and the tenant shall be responsible for matters falling
under Part B.
PART A
Responsibilities of the Landlord
1.

Structural repairs except those necessitated by damage caused by the
tenant.

2.

Whitewashing of walls and painting of doors and windows.

3.

Changing and plumbing pipes when necessary.

4.

Internal and external electrical wiring and related maintenance when
necessary.
PART B

Periodic repairs to be got done by the tenant
1.

Changing of tap washers and taps.

2.

Drain cleaning.

3.

Water closet repairs.

4.

Wash Basin repairs.

5.

Bath tub repairs.

6.

Geyser repairs.

7.

Circuit breaker repairs.

8.

Switches and socket repairs.

9.

Repairs and replacement of electrical equipment except major internal and
external wiring changes.

10.

Kitchen fixtures repairs.

11.

Replacement of knobs and locks of doors, cupboard, windows etc.

12.

Replacement of fly nets.

13.

Replacement of glass panels in windows, doors etc.

14.

Maintenance of gardens and open spaces let out to or used by the tenant.

317

318

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
THE THIRD SCHEDULE.
[See section 22 (1)]
SPECIAL CATEGORY OF LANDLORDS.
Special category of landlords specified in sub-section (1) of section 22 are as
follows :1.

Persons allotted residential premises by their employers and asked to
vacate the same due to termination of service or change in rules or for
any other reason.

2.

Persons released or retired from Government Service including Armed
Force or Air Force or Navy or Paramilitary Forces.

3.

Widows, divorcee or single woman.

4.

Person with disabilities.

5.

Person who is of the age of sixty years and above.

(By order of the Governor)

S.S. POOVALINGAM,
Secretary to Gove r nment,
Law Department.

©

[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2012-14.
[R. Dis. No. 197/2009.
[Price: Rs. 9.60 Paise.

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

2018

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
No. 252]

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

CHENNAI, MONDAY, JULY 16, 2018
Aani 32, Vilambi, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2049

Part IV—Section 2
Tamil Nadu Acts and Ordinances
CONTENTS

Pages.
ACTS :
No. 35 of 2018— The Tamil Nadu Agricultural University (Amendment)
Act, 2018... ..
..
..
..
..
..
..
No.36 of 2018— The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Service Co-operative Societies
(Appointment of Special Officers) Repeal Act, 2018.
..
No. 37 of 2018— The Chennai City Municipal Corporation (Amendment)
Act, 2018. ..
..
..
..
..
..
..

252-Ex-IV-2—1

172

173-174
175-176

No. 38 of 2018— The Tamil Nadu Agricultural Produce Marketing (Regulation)
(Amendment) Act, 2018
..
..
..
..

177-178

No. 39 of 2018— The Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Responsibilities of
Landlords and Tenants (Amendment) Act, 2018 ..
..

179-190

No. 40 of 2018— The Tamil Nadu Municipal Laws (Fifth Amendment) Act, 2018.

191-194

[ 171 ]

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

179

The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent
of the Governor on the 14th July 2018 and is hereby published for general
information:—
ACT No. 39 of 2018.

An Act to amend the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017.
BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Sixty-ninth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

Tamil Nadu
Act 42 of 2017.

1. This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants (Amendment) Act, 2018.

Short title.

2. In section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred
to as the principal Act),—

Amendment of
section 2.

(1) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—
“(a)
“agreement” or “tenancy agreement” means
the written agreement executed by the landlord and the tenant as
required under this Act and shall include a sub-tenancy agreement and
sub-lease agreement;”;
(2)
namely:—

for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted,

(c) “landlord” means a person, who for the time being
is receiving, or is entitled to receive, the rent of any premises, on his
own account, if the premises were let to a tenant, and shall include his
successor-in-interest:

252-Ex-IV-2—2

180

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
Provided that where a person is receiving rent for any premises is
entitled to so receive, on account of, or on behalf of, or for the benefit of, any
other person who cannot enter into a contract (such as minor, person with
unsound mind, etc.), whether as a trustee, guardian or receiver, then, the
said trustee, guardian or receiver shall also be a landlord for the purposes
of this Act;”;
(3) in clause (f), for the expression “except for industrial use”, the
expression “except the premises registered under the Factories Act, 1948
(Central Act LXIII of 1948)” shall be substituted;
(4) for clauses (i) and (j), the following clauses shall be substituted,
namely:—
“(i) “Rent Authority” means an officer appointed under section 30;
(j) “Rent Court” means a Rent Court constituted under section 32;”;
(5) for clause (l), the following clause shall be substituted, namely:—
“(l) “Rent Tribunal” means the Rent Tribunal constituted under
section 35;”.

Substitution of
section 4.

3. For section 4 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:—
“4. Tenancy Agreement.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act or any other law for the time being in force, no person shall, after
the commencement of this Act, let or take on rent any premises except by an
agreement in writing.
(2) Where, in relation to a tenancy created before the commencement
of this Act, no agreement in writing was entered into, the landlord and the
tenant shall enter into an agreement in writing with regard to that tenancy
within a period of ninety days from the date of commencement of this Act:
Provided that where the landlord or tenant, fails to enter into an
agreement under this sub-section, the landlord or tenant shall have the right
to apply for termination of the tenancy under clause (a) of sub-section (2) of
section 21.
(3) Every agreement referred to in sub-section (1) and
sub-section (2) and any tenancy agreement in writing already entered into
before the commencement of this Act, shall be registered with the Rent
Authority by the landlord or tenant, by making an application in the Form
specified in the First Schedule within such time as may be prescribed.
(4) On receipt of application under sub-section (3), the Rent
Authority shall, within a period of thirty days, register the agreement subject
to the provisions of this Act and the rules made thereunder, and provide a
registration number.
(5) The Rent Authority shall reject the application submitted under
sub-section (3) for reasons to be recorded in writing, if such application does
not conform to the provisions of this Act or the rules made thereunder:
Provided that no application shall be rejected unless the parties have
been given an opportunity of being heard.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

181

(6) The Rent Authority shall upload the name of the
parties, details of the premises and tenure of the tenancy of all
tenancies along with the registration number to be provided under
sub-section (4), in the form and manner as may be prescribed, on its
website within fifteen days from the date of registration.
4-A. Effect of non-registration.— No document required to be
registered under sub-section (3) of section 4 shall, unless it has been
registered,—
(a) affect any immovable property comprised therein, or
(b) confer any power to adopt, or
(c) be received in evidence of any transaction affecting
such property or conferring any right.”.
4. In section 5 of the principal Act, for sub-section (3), the following
sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—

Amendment of
section 5.

“(3) If a tenancy for a fixed term ends and has not been renewed
or the premises have not been vacated by the tenant and where the
landlord has not demanded possession of vacant premises at the end of
such tenancy, the tenancy shall be deemed to be renewed on a monthto-month basis on the same terms and conditions as were in the expired
tenancy agreement, for a maximum period of six months.”.
5. In section 6 of the principal Act, for sub-section (2), the following
sub-section shall be substituted, namely:—

Amendment of
section 6.

“(2) In the event of the death of a tenant, the right of tenancy of
residential and non-residential premises shall devolve for the remaining
period of tenancy to his successors-in-interest in the following order:—
(a) spouse;
(b) sons, daughters or daughters-in-law being the widow
of a pre-deceased son;
(c) either or both of the surviving parents:
Provided that the successor had been ordinarily living or working
in the premises with the deceased tenant upto his death.”.
6.

For section 8 of the principal Act, the following section shall be

substituted, namely:—
“8. Rent payable.— The rent payable in relation to a
premises shall be,—
(a) in case of new tenancies entered into after
the commencement of this Act, the rent agreed to between the
landlord and the tenant at the commencement of the tenancy;
(b) in case of tenancies entered into before the
commencement of this Act, where no agreement was executed
between the parties, the rent agreed to between the landlord
and the tenant in the agreement executed between them under
sub-section (2) of section 4 ;
252-Ex-IV-2—2a

Substitution of
section 8.

182

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(c) in case of tenancies entered into before the commencement of the Act, where an agreement in writing was already entered into, the
rent agreed to between the landlord and the tenant in such agreement.”.

Amendment of
section 9.
Substitution of
section 10.

7. In section 9 of the principal Act, sub-sections (5), (7) and (8) shall
be omitted.
8. For section 10 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—
“10. Rent Authority to fix or revise rent.—The Rent Authority, on
an application made by the landlord or tenant, shall fix or revise, as the case
may be, the rent and other charges payable by the tenant and also fix the
date from which the revised rent becomes payable, in accordance with the
tenancy agreement entered into between the parties.”.

Amendment of
section 11.

9. In section 11 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for the expression “within one month after vacation of the premises”, the expression “at
the time of taking over of possession of the vacant premises by the landlord”
shall be substituted.

Substitution of
section 12.

10. For section 12 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—
“12.Agreement to be given to the tenant.—The landlord shall
give one original signed and registered agreement to the tenant within fifteen days of the agreement being registered with the Rent Authority.”.

Amendment of
section 13.

11. In section 13 of the principal Act, after sub-section (2), the following
proviso shall be added, namely:—
“Provided that where the rent or other charges have been paid by the
tenant to the landlord through electronic medium, the bank acknowledgement shall be considered as proof of payment.”.

Amendment of
section 14.

12. In section 14 of the principal Act, sub-section (5) shall be omitted.

Amendment of
section 15.

13. In section 15 of the principal Act,—
(1) for sub-sections (3) and (4), the following sub-sections shall be
substituted, namely:—
“(3) In the event of tenant’s refusal to carry out the scheduled or agreed repairs, the landlord shall get the repairs done and the tenant
shall be liable to pay the same to the landlord within a period of one month
from the date of issue of notice by the landlord.
(4) In case the landlord refuses to carry out the scheduled
or agreed repairs, the tenant can get the work done and deduct the same
from rent:
Provided that in no case such deduction from rent shall exceed fifty per
cent of the agreed rent for one month.”.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
14. In section 20 of the principal Act, in sub-section (4), for the expression “as may be prescribed”, the expression “incurred but shall not be

183
Amendment of
section 20.

more than rupees five thousand” shall be substituted.
15. In section 21 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2),—

Amendment of
section 21.

(1) for clause (a), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—
“(a) that the landlord and tenant have failed to enter into
an agreement under sub-section (2) of section 4.”;
(2) for clause (g), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—
“(g)

that

the

premises

let

for

residential

or

non-residential purpose are required by the landlord for occupation for
residential or non-residential purposes for himself or for any member of
his family or for any person for whose benefit the premises were held.”.
16. In section 22 of the principal Act,—

Amendment of
section 22.

(1) in sub-section (1), for the expression “two months”, the expression “three months” shall be substituted;
(2) in sub-section (2), for the expression “the Rent Court may
levy a penalty on the landlord which may extend to ten thousand rupees”,
the expression “he shall be liable to penalty imposed by the Rent Court,
which shall not be more than twenty five thousand rupees” shall be substituted;
(3) after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be added,
namely:—
“(3) Where a landlord has acquired any premises by sale,
gift, lease or exchange, no application for recovery of possession of such
premises shall lie under clause (g) of sub-section (2) of section 21 until
the period specified in the tenancy agreement, in respect of the tenancy
created before such transfer, has elapsed:
Provided that if prior to such transfer, the tenant had not entered into
a tenancy agreement with the previous landlord, then the landlord and
the tenant shall enter into such agreement in the manner and within the
period specified in sub-section (2) of section 4.”.
17. In section 24 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for the
words “simple interest”, the word “interest” shall be substituted.

Amendment of
section 24.

18. For Chapters VI and VII, the following Chapters shall be
substituted, namely:—

Substitution of
Chapters VI
and VII.

184

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
“CHAPTER - VI.
APPOINTMENT OF RENT AUTHORITIES, THEIR POWERS AND
FUNCTIONS.
30. Appointment of Rent Authority.— The Collector shall, with the
previous approval of the Government, appoint an officer, not below the
rank of Deputy Collector to be the Rent Authority for the area within his
jurisdiction to which this Act applies.
31. Power and procedure of Rent Authority.— The Rent Authority
shall have the same powers as are vested in Rent Court under this Act,
in any proceeding under sections 9, 10, 14, 15 and 20 of the Act. The
procedure as laid down in section 36 and 39 of the Act shall be followed
in disposal of such applications.
CHAPTER - VII.
RENT COURTS AND RENT TRIBUNALS.
32. Constitution of Rent Court.— (1) The Government may, by
notification, constitute such number of Rent Courts in as many urban
areas as may be deemed necessary by it:
Provided that where there already exists a Rent Court, the
Government may designate the same as the Rent Court under this Act:
Provided further that where there does not exist any Rent Court, the
Government may designate any other Court established under any other
law as the Rent Court under this Act.
(2) Where two or more Rent Courts are constituted for any urban
area, the Government may, by general or special order, regulate the
distribution of business among them.
(3) A Rent Court shall be headed by a Presiding Officer to be
appointed by the Government in consultation with the High Court.
(4) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as Presiding Officer of
the Rent Court unless he is a member of the State Judicial Service.
(5) The Government may, in consultation with the High Court,
authorize the Presiding Officer of one Rent Court to discharge the
functions of the Presiding Officer of another Rent Court also.
33. Appeals.— (1) An appeal shall lie against the order of the
Rent Authority made under this Act to the Rent Court having territorial
jurisdiction.
(2) An appeal under sub-section (1) shall be preferred within thirty
days from the date of the order made by the Rent Authority.
34. Jurisdiction of Rent Court.—Notwithstanding anything
contained in any other law for the time being in force, in the areas to
which this Act extends, only the Rent Court and no Civil Court shall have
jurisdiction, except the jurisdiction of Rent Authority under section 31, to
hear and decide the applications relating to disputes between landlord
and tenant and matters connected therewith and ancillary thereto under
this Act:

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
Central Act IV of 1882.
Central Act IX of 1872.

Provided that the Rent Court shall, in deciding such applications
relating to tenancies and premises, give due regard to the provisions of
the Transfer of Property Act, 1882, the Indian Contract Act, 1872 or any
other substantive law applicable to such matter in the same manner, in
which such law would have been applied had the dispute been brought
before a Civil Court by way of suit.
35. Constitution of Rent Tribunals.— (1) The Government may, by
notification, constitute such number of Rent Tribunals at such places as
may be deemed necessary by it and notify a Rent Tribunal as Principal
Rent Tribunal, where more than one Tribunal is constituted:
Provided that where there already exists a Rent Tribunal, the
Government may designate the same as the Rent Tribunal under this Act:
Provided further that where there does not exist a Rent Tribunal, the
Government may designate any other Tribunal established under any
other law as the Rent Tribunal under this Act.
(2) The Rent Tribunal may consist of one or more benches, with each
bench being headed by an Appellate Member. The senior most Appellate
Member of the Rent Tribunal shall function as the Principal Appellate
Member. The Principal Appellate Member may, on application, transfer
appeal cases from one bench of the Rent Tribunal to another. Similarly,
the Principal Rent Tribunal may, on an application, transfer appeal from
one Rent Tribunal to another Rent Tribunal, and all the members of Rent
Tribunal shall be appointed by the Government in consultation with the
High Court.
(3) No person shall be eligible to be appointed as an Appellate
Member of the Rent Tribunal unless he is from State Higher Judicial
Service.

Central Act V of 1908.

36. Procedure of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal.— (1)
Subject to any rules that may be made under this Act, the Rent Court
and the Rent Tribunal shall not be bound by the procedure laid down by
the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, but shall be guided by the principles
of natural justice and shall have power to regulate their own procedure,
and the Rent Court shall follow the following procedure, namely:—
(a) the landlord or tenant may file an application before the Rent
Court accompanied by affidavits and documents, if any;
(b) the Rent Court, then, shall issue notice to the opposite party,
accompanied by copies of application, affidavits and documents;
(c) the opposite party shall file a reply accompanied by affidavits
and documents, if any, after serving a copy of the same to the applicant;
(d) the applicant may file a rejoinder, if any, after serving the
copy to the opposite party;
(e) the Rent Court shall, then, fix a date of hearing and may hold
such summary inquiry as it deems necessary.
(2) In every case, before the Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal, the
evidence of a witness shall be given by affidavit. However, the Rent Court
and the Rent Tribunal, where it appears to it that it is necessary in the
interest of justice to call a witness for examination or cross-examination,
such witness can be produced and may order attendance for examination
or cross examination of such a witness.

185

186

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(3) The provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 regarding
service of summons shall be applicable mutatis mutandis for service of
notice by the Rent Court or Rent Tribunal.

Central Act
V of 1908.

(4) Every application or appeal, shall be, as far as possible, in the
forms as may be prescribed.
(5) The Rent Court shall not ordinarily allow more than three
adjournments at the request of a party throughout the proceedings and in
case it decides to do so, it shall record the reasons for the same in writing
and order the party requesting adjournment to pay the reasonable cost.
(6) (a) All applications under clauses (a), (b), (c), (e), (f) and (h) of
sub-section (2) of section 21 shall be decided within 90 days of filing of
application to the Rent Court;
(b) Applications under clauses (d) and (g) of sub-section (2) of
section 21 shall be decided within 30 days of filing of application to the
Rent Court.
37. Powers of Rent Court and Rent Tribunal.— (1) The Rent
Court and the Rent Tribunal, for the purpose of discharging their functions
under this Act, shall have the same powers as are vested in a Civil Court
under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 for the purposes of,—

Central Act
V of 1908.

(a) summoning and enforcing the attendance of any person and
examining him on oath;
(b) requiring the discovery and production of documents;
(c) issuing commissions for examination of the witnesses or
documents;
(d) issuing commission for local investigation;
(e) receiving evidence on affidavits;
(f) dismissing an application or appeal for default or deciding it
ex-parte;
(g) setting aside any order of dismissal of any application or
appeal for default or any other order passed by it ex-parte;
(h) execution of its orders and decisions under this Act without
reference to any civil court;
(i) reviewing its orders and decisions; and
(j) any other matter as may be prescribed.
(2) Any proceedings before the Rent Court or Rent Tribunal shall be
deemed to be a judicial proceedings within the meaning of sections 193 and
228, and for the purpose of section 196, of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 and
the Rent Court and the Rent Tribunal shall be deemed to be a civil court for
the purposes of section 195 and Chapter XXVI of the Code of Criminal
Procedure, 1973.
(3) For the purpose of holding any inquiry or discharging any duty
under this Act, the Rent Court may—

Central Act
XLV of 1860.
Central Act
2 of 1974.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(a) after giving not less than twenty-four hours notice in
writing, enter and inspect or authorize any officer, subordinate to him, to
enter and inspect, any premises at any time between sunrise and sunset;
(b) by written order, require any person to produce for his
inspection such books or documents relevant to the inquiry, at such time
and at such place as may be specified in the order.
(4) The Rent Court may, if it thinks fit, appoint one or more
persons having special knowledge of the matter under consideration as
an assessor or valuer to advise it in the proceeding before it.
(5) Any clerical or arithmetical mistake in any order passed by the
Rent Court or any other error arising out of any accidental omission may,
at any time, be corrected by the Rent Court on an application received by
it in this behalf from any of the parties or otherwise.
Central Act 2 of 1974.

(6) The Rent Court may exercise the powers of a Judicial
Magistrate of First Class for the recovery of the fine under the provisions
of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 and the Rent Court shall be
deemed to be a Magistrate under the said Code for the purposes of such
recovery.
(7) An order made by a Rent Court or an order passed in appeal
or revision, or review under this Chapter shall be executable by the Rent
Court as a decree of a civil court and for this purpose, the Rent Court shall
have the powers of a civil court.
(8) The Rent Court may set aside any order passed ex-parte if the
aggrieved party files an application and satisfies it that notice was not duly
served or that he was prevented by any sufficient cause from appearing
when the case was called for hearing.
(9) Save as otherwise expressly provided in this Act, every
order made by the Rent Court shall, subject to decision in appeal, be
final and shall not be called in question in any original suit, application or
execution proceedings.
38. Appeal to Rent Tribunal.— (1) From every final order
passed by the Rent Court, an appeal shall lie to the Rent Tribunal, within
the local limits of whose jurisdiction the premises is situated and such an
appeal shall be filed within a period of thirty days from the date of final
order along with a copy of such final order.
(2) The Rent Tribunal, upon filing an appeal under sub-section
(1) shall serve notice, accompanied by copy of appeal to the respondent
and fix a hearing not later than thirty days from the date of service of
notice of appeal on the respondent and the appeal shall be disposed of
within a period of one hundred and twenty days from the date of service
of notice of appeal on the respondent.
(3) Where the Rent Tribunal considers it necessary in the
interest of arriving at a just and proper decision, it may allow documents
at any stage of the proceedings in appeal, however, this facility would be
available to the applicants only once during the hearing.
(4) The Rent Tribunal may, in its discretion, pass such
interlocutory order during the pendency of the appeal, as it may deem fit.

252-Ex-IV-2—3

187

188

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(5) (a) While deciding the appeal, the Rent Tribunal, after recording
reasons therefor, confirm, set aside or modify the order passed by a Rent
Court;
(b) The decision of the Rent Tribunal shall be final and no
further appeal or revision shall lie against the order.
(6) On application of any of the parties and after notice to the parties
and after hearing such of them as have desired to be heard, or of its
own motion without such notice, the Principal Rent Tribunal may, at any
stage, transfer any case from one Rent Court to any other Rent Court for
disposal.
(7) Where any case has been transferred under sub-section (6), the
Rent Court to whom the case has been transferred subject to any special
direction in the order of transfer, proceed from the stage at which it was
transferred.
39. Execution of the order.— (1) The Rent Court shall, on
application of any party, execute in the manner as may be prescribed, a
final order of any other order passed under this Act by adopting any one
or more of the following modes, namely:—
(a) delivery of possession of the premises to the person in
whose favour the decision has been made;
(b) attachment and sale of the movable or immovable property
of the opposite party;
(c) attachment of any one or more bank accounts of the
opposite party and satisfaction of the amount of order to be paid from
such account;
(d) appointing any advocate or any other competent person
including officers of the Rent Court or local administration or local body
for the execution of the order.
(2) The Rent Court may take the help from the local government or
local body or the local police for the execution of the final orders:
Provided that the help of police shall be obtained subject to payment
of such cost by the litigants as may be decided by the Rent Court.
(3) The Rent Court shall conduct the execution proceedings
in relation to a final order or any other order passed under this Act in
summary manner and dispose of the application for execution made
under this section within 30 days from the date of service of notice on
opposite party.”.

Substitution of
section 43.

19. For section 43 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:“43. Officers and other employees of the Rent Court, Rent
Tribunal and the Rent Authority.— (1) The Government may, in
consultation with the Rent Court or the Rent Tribunal or the Rent Authority
appoint such officers and employees as it considers necessary for the
efficient discharge of their functions under this Act.
(2) The salary and the allowances payable to, and the other terms
and conditions of service, of the officers and of the employees of the
Rent Court or the Rent Tribunal or the Rent Authority, as the case may
be, appointed under sub-section (1) shall be such as may be prescribed:

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

189

Provided that where there already exists a Rent Court or
the Rent Tribunal or the Rent Authority, the Government may designate
the existing officers and employees as the officers and employees of the
Rent Court or a Rent Tribunal or a Rent Authority, as the case may be,
under this Act.”.
20. For the First Schedule of the principal Act, the following
Schedule shall be substituted, namely:—
“THE FIRST SCHEDULE
[See section 4(3)]
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION
To
The Rent Authority,
........................................
........................................ (Address)
(1)

Name and address of the landlord including email id and
contact details (optional):

(2)

Name
and
address
of
the
Property
Manager
(if any), including email id and contact details (optional):

(3)

Name(s) and address of the tenant Including email and
contact details (optional):

(4)

Description of premises let to the tenant including appurtenant
land, if any:

(5)

Date from which possession is given to the tenant:

(6)

Rent payable as in section 8:

(7)

Furniture and other equipment provided to the tenant (if any):

(8)

Other charges payable:

(9)

252-Ex-IV-2—3a

(a)

Electricity:

(b)

Water:

(c)

Extra furnishing, fittings and fixtures:

(d)

Other services:

Duration of tenancy (Period for which let):

Substitution of First
Schedule.

190

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(10)

Attach original executed Tenancy agreement:

(11)

ID Proof of landlord submitted:
(PAN / Aadhar / Voters ID / Passport / Driving License)

(12)

ID Proof of tenant submitted:
(PAN / Aadhar / Voters ID / Passport / Driving License)
Name and Signature of landlord:

Photograph of
landlord

Name and Signature of tenant:

Photograph of
tenant

Encl.:
(1) Tenancy Agreement
(2) Copy of the self-attested ID proof of landlord
(3) Copy of the self-attested ID proof of tenant.”.
(By order of the Governor)
S.S. POOVALINGAM,
Secretary to Government,
Law Department.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received
the assent of the Governor on the 25th July 2019 and is hereby
published for general information:—
ACT No. 22 OF 2019.
An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017.
B it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants (Amendment) Act, 2019.

Short title and
commencement.

(2) Section 3 shall be deemed to have come into force on the 22nd
day of May 2019 and remaining sections shall come into force at once.
2. In section 1 of the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred to
as the principal Act), after sub-section (2), the following sub-section shall be
inserted, namely:—

Tamil Nadu Act
42 of 2017.

Amendment of
section 1.

“(2-A) The Government may, by notiﬁcation, direct that all or any of
the provisions of this Act shall come into force in any other area on such date
as may be speciﬁed in such notiﬁcation.”.
3. In section 4 of the principal Act, in sub-section (2), for the expression
“ninety days”, the expression “two hundred and ten days” shall be substituted.

Amendment of
section 4.

4. In section 47 of the principal Act, in the proviso to sub-section (2),—

Amendment of
section 47.

(i) for the expression “180 days”, the expression “270 days” shall
be substituted;
(ii) for the expression “270 days”, the expression “360 days” shall
be substituted.
Tamil Nadu
Ordinance
1 of 2019.
Tamil Nadu Act 42
of 2017.

5. (1) The Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Responsibilities of
Landlords and Tenants (Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 is hereby repealed.

Repeal and
saving.

(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any action
taken under the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Responsibilities
of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017, as amended by the said Ordinance,
shall be deemed to have been done or taken under the said Act, as
amended by this Act.
(By order of the Governor)
C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,
Secretary to Government (FAC),
Law Department.

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE DIRECTOR OF STATIONERY AND PRINTING, CHENNAI
ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

115

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the
assent of the Governor on the 15th February 2020 and is hereby
published for general information:—
ACT No. 3 OF 2020.
An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights
and Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017.
B it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Seventieth Year of the Republic of India as
follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Short title and
commencement.
Rights and Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants (Amendment)
Act, 2020.
(2) It shall be deemed to have come into force on the
20th day of September 2019.
Tamil Nadu Act 42 of
2017.

2. In section 4 of the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Amendment of
section 4.
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017, in sub-section
(2), for the expression “two hundred and ten days”, the expression
“ﬁve hundred and seventy ﬁve days” shall be substituted.

Tamil Nadu
Ordinance 5 of
2019.

3. (1) The Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Responsibilities Repeal and saving.
of Landlords and Tenants (Second Amendment) Ordinance, 2019 is
hereby repealed.

Tamil Nadu Act 42 of
2017.

(2) Notwithstanding such repeal, anything done or any
action taken under the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017, as amended
by the said Ordinance, shall be deemed to have been done or taken
under the said Act, as amended by this Act.
(By order of the Governor)
C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,
Secretary to Government (FAC),
Law Department.

5

102

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received
the assent of the Governor on the 22nd April 2022 and is hereby published
for general information: —
ACT No. 19 OF 2022.
An Act further to amend the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017.
B it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in
the Seventy-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

Short title and
commencement.

1. (1) This Act may be called the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants (Amendment) Act, 2022.
(2) It shall come into force on such date as the Government may,
by notiﬁcation, appoint.

Amendment of
section 2.

2. In section 2 of the Tamil Nadu Regulation of Rights and Tamil Nadu Act
Responsibilities of Landlords and Tenants Act, 2017 (hereinafter referred
42 of 2017.
to as ‘the principal Act’)—
(1) for clause (c), the following clause shall be substituted,
namely:—
“(c) “landlord” whether called landowner or lessor or by any
other name, means a person who receives or is entitled to receive, the rent of
any premises, on his own account, if the premises were let to a tenant, and
shall include—
(i) his successor-in-interest;
(ii) a trustee or guardian or receiver receiving rent for any
premises or is entitled to so receive, on account of or on behalf of or for the
beneﬁt of, any other person such as minor or person of unsound mind who
cannot enter into a contract;”;
(2) in clause (f), the expression “or for educational” shall be
omitted;
(3) after clause (m), the following clause shall be inserted,
namely:—
“(mm) “sub-tenant” means a person to whom the tenant
sub-lets whole or part of the premises held by him or transfers or assigns his
rights accrued under the tenancy agreement or any part thereof upon entering
into a supplementary agreement to the existing tenancy agreement;”.

Substitution of
section 7.

3. For section 7 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—
“7. Restriction on sub-letting.- (1) After the commencement of this
Act, no tenant shall, except by entering into a supplementary agreement to
the existing tenancy agreement,—
(a) sub-let whole or part of the premises held by him as a
tenant;
(b) transfer or assign his rights in the tenancy agreement or
any part thereof.
(2) Where the premises is sub-let upon entering into a supplementary
agreement to the existing tenancy agreement as referred to in sub-section
(1), the landlord and tenant shall jointly inform the Rent Authority about the
sub-tenancy within a period of two months from the date of execution of such
agreement, in such Form as may be prescribed.”.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
4. In section 15 of the principal Act, after sub-section (5), the following Amendment of
sub-section and Explanation shall be added, namely:—
section 15.
“(6) Where the premises let out on rent becomes uninhabitable
for the tenant due to an event of force majeure or the tenant is unable to
reside due to occurrence of such event, the landlord shall not charge rent
from the tenant until the said premises is restored by the landlord, subject to
the provisions of this section, to be inhabitable:
Provided that where the rented premises becomes uninhabitable as
speciﬁed in sub-section (5) or this sub-section and the landlord fails to carry
out the required repairs to make it inhabitable or the said premises could
not be made inhabitable, then, the security deposit and advance rent shall
be refunded by the landlord to the tenant within a period of ﬁfteen days of
the expiry of the notice period, after making due deduction of liability of the
tenant, if any.
Explanation.— For the purposes of this section, “force majeure” means a
situation of war, ﬂood, drought, ﬁre, cyclone, earthquake or any other calamity
caused by nature aﬀecting the habitation of the tenant in the premises let out
on rent.”.
5. In section 17 of principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the expression Amendment of
section 17.
“may enter a premises in accordance with written notice given to the tenant”,
the expression “may enter the premises let out on rent after serving a notice
to the tenant, in writing or through electronic mode” shall be substituted.
6. For section 19 of the principal Act, the following section shall be Substitution of
substituted, namely:—
section 19.
“19. Duties of property manager and consequences of violation of
duties.— (1) The duties of the property manager shall include the following,
namely:—
(a) to collect rent against receipt;
(b) to do essential repairs on behalf of the landlord;
(c) to inspect the premises, from time to time;
(d) to give notices to tenant for––
(i) proper maintenance of the premises;
(ii) delay in payment of rent;
(iii) revision of rent;
(iv) vacation of premises; and
(v) renewal of tenancy;
(e) to help in resolution of disputes among tenants and
between landlord and tenant;
(f) any other matter relating to tenancy to be acted upon only
on the instructions of the landlord.
(2) Where the property manager acts, in contravention of the
provisions of sub-section (1) or against the instructions of the landlord, the
Rent Authority may, on an application made to it by the landlord or tenant
in that behalf, remove the property manager or impose such costs on the
property manager so as to compensate any loss incurred by the landlord or
tenant due to such contravention.”.

103

104
Amendment of
section 21.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
7. In section 21 of the principal Act,
(1) in sub-section (1), for the expression “continuance of tenancy
agreement”, the expression “continuance of tenancy” shall be substituted;
(2) in sub-section (2),—
(a) clause (g) shall be omitted;
(b) after clause (h), the following clauses shall be added,
namely:—
“(i) that the tenant does not agree to pay the rent payable under
section 8;
(j) that the tenant has carried out any structural change or erected
any permanent structure in the premises let out on rent without the written
consent of the landlord.”.

Substitution of
section 22.

8. For section 22 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—
“22. Eviction and recovery of possession of premises in case of death
of landlord.— (1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or any other
law for the time being in force, in case of death of the landlord, where there is
a bonaﬁde requirement of the premises let out on rent by the legal heirs of the
landlord during the period of tenancy, such legal heirs may ﬁle an application
in this behalf for eviction and recovery of possession of the said premises
before the Rent Court in such Form and manner, as may be prescribed.
(2) The Rent Court may, on an application made to it under
sub-section (1), if it is satisﬁed that the legal heirs of the deceased landlord
are in bonaﬁde requirement of the premises let out on rent, pass necessary
orders against the tenant for handing over vacant possession of the said
premises to the
legal heirs of the deceased landlord.”.

Amendment of
section 31.

9. In section 31 of the principal Act, for the expression “and 20 of the
Act”, the expression “19 or 20 of the Act” shall be substituted.
(By order of the Governor)
C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,
Secretary to Government (Legislation),
Law Department.





THE REGISTRATION ACT, 1908
___________
ARRANGEMENT OF SECTIONS
___________
PART I
PRELIMINARY
SECTIONS
1. Short title, extent and commencement.
2. Definitions.
PART II
OF THE REGISTRATION-ESTABLISHMENT
3. Inspector-General of Registration.
4. [Repealed.].
5. Districts and sub-districts.
6. Registrars and Sub-Registrars.
7. Offices of Registrar and Sub-Registrar.
8. Inspectors of Registration offices.
9. [Repealed.].
10. Absence of Registrar or vacancy in his office.
11. Absence of Registrar on duty in his district.
12. Absence of Sub-Registrar or vacancy in his office.
13. Report to State Government of appointments under sections 10, 11 and 12.
14. Establishments of registering officers.
15. Seal of registering officers.
16. Register-books and fire-proof boxes.
16A. Keeping of books in computer floppies, diskettes, etc.
PART III
OR REGISTRABEL DOCUMENTS
17. Documents of which registration is compulsory.
18. Documents of which registration is optional.
19. Documents in language not understood by registering officer.
20. Documents containing interlineations, blanks, erasures or alterations.
21. Description of property and maps or plans.
22. Description of houses and land by reference to Government maps or surveys.
PART IV
OF THE TIME OF PRESENTATION
23. Time for presenting documents.
23A. Re-registration of certain documents.
24. Documents executed by several persons at different times.
25. Provision where delay in presentation is unavoidable.
26. Documents executed out of India.
27. Wills may be presented or deposited at any time.
PART V
OF THE PLACE OF REGISTRATION
28. Place for registering documents relating to land.
29. Place for registering other documents.

1

SECTIONS
30. Registration by Registrars in certain cases.
31. Registration or acceptance for deposit at private residence.
PART IV
OF PRESENTING DOCUMENTS FOR REGISTRATION
32. Persons to present documents for registration.
32A. Compulsory affixing of photograph, etc.
33. Power-of-attorney recognisable for purposes of section 32
34. Enquiry before registration by registering officer.
35. Procedure on admission and denial of execution respectively.
PART VII
OF ENFORCING THE APPEARANCE OF EXECUTANTS AND WITNESSES
36. Procedure where appearance of executant or witness is desired.
37. Officer or Court to issue and cause service of summons.
38. Persons exempt from appearance at registration-office.
39. Law as to summonses, commissions and witnesses.
PART VIII
OF PRESENTING WILLS AND AUTHORITIES TO ADOPT
40. Persons entitled to present wills and authorities to adopt.
41. Registration of wills and authorities to adopt.
PART IX
OF THE DEPOSIT OF WILLS
42. Deposit of wills.
43. Procedure on deposit of wills.
44. Withdrawal of sealed cover deposited under section 42.
45. Proceedings on death of depositor.
46. Saving of certain enactments and powers of Courts.
PART X
OF THE EFFECTS OF REGISTRATION AND NON-REGISTRATION
47. Time from which registered document operates.
48. Registered documents relating to property when to take effect against oral agreements.
49. Effect of non-registration of documents required to be registered.
50. Certain registered documents relating to land to take effect against unregistered documents.
PART XI
OF THE DUITES AND POWERS OF REGISTERING OFFICERS
(A) As to the Register-books and Indexes
51. Register-books to be kept in the several offices.
52. Duties of registering officers when document presented.
53. Entries to be numbered consecutively.
54. Current indexes and entries therein.
55. Indexes to be made by registering officers, and their contents.
56. [Repealed.].
(B) As to the procedure on admitting to registration
57. Registering officers to allow inspection of certain books and indexes, and to give certified copies
of entries.
58. Particulars to be endorsed on documents admitted to registration.
59. Endorsements to be dated and signed by registering officer.
60. Certificate of registration
61. Endorsements and certificate to be copied and document returned.
62. Procedure on presenting document in language unknown to registering officer.
2

SECTIONS
63. Power to administer oaths and record of substance of statements.
(C) Special duties of Sub-Registrar
64. Procedure where document relates to land in several sub-districts.
65. Procedure where document relates to land in several districts.
(D) Special duties of Registrar
66. Procedure after registration of documents relating to land.
67. [Omitted.].
(E) Of the Controlling powers of Registrar and Inspector-General
68. Power of Registrar to superintend and control Sub-Registrars.
69. Power of Inspector-General to superintend registration offices and make rules.
70. Power of Inspector-General to remit fines.
PART XII
OF REFUSAL TO REGISTER
71. Reasons for refusal to register to be recorded.
72. Appeal to Registrar from orders of Sub-Registrar refusing registration on ground other than
denial of execution.
73. Application to Registrar where Sub-Registrar refuses to register on ground of denial of execution.
74. Procedure of Registrar on such application.
75. Order by Registrar to register and procedure thereon.
76. Order of refusal by Registrar.
77. Suit in case of order of refusal by Registrar.
PART XIII
OF THE FEES FOR REGISTRATION, SEARCHES AND COPIES
78. Fees to be fixed by State Government.
79. Publication of fees.
80. Fees payable on presentation.
PART XIV
OF PENALTIES
81. Penalty for incorrectly endorsing, copying, translating or registering documents with intent to
injure.
82. Penalty for making false statements, delivering false copies or translations, false personation, and
abetment.
83. Registering officers may commence prosecutions.
84. Registering officers to be deemed public servants.
PART XV
MISCELLANEOUS
85. Destruction of unclaimed documents.
86. Registering officer not liable for thing bona fide done or refused in his official capacity.
87. Nothing so done invalidated by defect in appointment or procedure.
88. 88. Registration of documents executed by Government officers or certain public functionaries.
89. Copies of certain orders, certificates and instruments to be sent to registering officers and filed.
Exemption from Act
90. Exemption of certain documents executed by or in favour of Government.
91. Inspection and copies of such documents.
92. [Repealed.].
93. [Repealed.].
THE SCHEDULE. [REPEALED.] .
3

THE REGISTRATION ACT, 1908
ACT NO. 16 OF 19081
[18th December, 1908.]

An Act to consolidate the enactments relating to the Registration of Documents.
WHEREAS it is expedient to consolidate the enactments relating to the registration of documents; it is
hereby enacted as follows:—
PART I
PRELIMINARY
1. Short title, extent and commencement.—(1) This Act may be called the 2*** Registration Act,
1908.
3

[(2) It extends to the whole of India except the State of Jammu and Kashmir:

Provided that the State Government may exclude any districts or tracts of country from its operation.]
(3) It shall come into force on the first day of January, 1909.
2. Definitions.—In this Act, unless there is anything repugnant in the subject or context,—
(1) “Addition” means the place of residence, and the profession, trade, rank and title (if any) of a
person described, and in the case of 4[an Indian], 5*** his father's name, or where he is usually
described as the son of his mother, then his mother's name;
(2) “Book” includes a portion of a book and also any number of sheets connected together with a
view of forming a book or portion of a book;
(3) “District” and “sub-district” respectively mean a district and sub-district formed under this
Act;
(4) “District Court” includes the High Court in its ordinary original civil jurisdiction;
(5) “Endorsement” and “endorsed” include and apply to an entry in writing by a registering
officer on a rider or covering slip to any document tendered for registration under this Act;
(6) “Immovable Property” includes land, buildings, hereditary allowances, rights to ways, lights,
ferries, fisheries or any other benefit to arise out of land, and things attached to the earth, or
permanently fastened to anything which is attached to the earth, but not standing timber, growing
crops nor grass;
6
[(6A) “India” means the territory of India excluding the State of Jammu and Kashmir;]
(7) “Lease” includes a counterpart, kabuliyat, and undertaking to cultivate or occupy, and an
agreement to lease;

1. It has been amended in its application to West Bengal by Ben. Act 5 of 1942 and West Ben. Acts 29 of 1950 and 31 of 1951;
to Maharashtra by Bombay Acts 5 of 1929, 17 of 1930, 18 of 1933, 24 of 1939, 10 of 1939, 10 of 1942 and 6 of 1960,
Maharashtra Acts 19 of 1960 and 20 of 1971; to the C.P. Act 1 of 1937 and M.P. Act 8 of 1965; to Madras and Andhra by
Madras Acts 3 of 1935 and 17 of `952; to Orissa by Orissa Act 3 of 1933; to the Punjab by Punjab Act 8 of 1941 and 19 of
1961; to Bihar by Bihar Acts 14 of 1947 and 24 of 1952; to Kerala by Kerala Act 7 of 1968; to Himachal Pradesh by H.P. Act
2 of 1969; to Pondicherry by Pondicherry Act 17 of 1970; to Uttar Pradesh by U.P. Acts 14 of 1971, 48 of 1975 and 57 of
1976; to Haryana by Haryana Act 36 of 1973; to Maharashtra by Maharashtra Acts 29 of 1974 and 49 of 1975; to Tamil Nadu
by T.N. Act 31 of 1974; to Orissa by Orissa Act 11 of 1976 and to West Bengal by West Ben. Act 17 of 1978.
This Act has been extended to—
Dadra and Nagar Haveli by Reg. 6 of 1963, s.2 and first Schedule, Goa, Daman and Diu by Reg. 11 of 1963, s. 3 and
Schedule and the whole of the Union territory of Lakshadweep by Reg. 8 of 1965, s.3 and Schedule.
Pondicherry by Act 26 of 1968, s. 3 and Schedule.
2. The word “Indian” omitted by Act 45 of 1969, s. 2.
3. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule, for sub-section (2).
4. Subs. by A.O. 1950, for “a Native of India”.
5. The words and brackets “his cast (if any) and” omitted by Act 17 of 1956, s. 2.
6. Ins. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule.

4

(8) “Minor” means a person who, according to the personal law to which he is subject, has not
attained majority;
(9) “Movable Property” includes standing timber, growing crops and grass, fruit upon and juice
in trees, and property of every other description, except immovable property; and
(10) “Representative” includes the guardian of a minor and the committee or other legal curator
of a lunatic or idiot.
1

*

*

*

*

*

PART II
OF THE REGISTRATION-ESTABLISHMENT
3. Inspector-General of Registration.—(1) The 2[State Government] shall appoint an officer to be
the Inspector-General of Registration for the territories subject to such Government:
Provided that the 2[State Government] may, instead of making such appointment, direct that all or any
of the powers and duties hereinafter conferred and imposed upon the Inspector-General shall be exercised
and performed by such officer or officers, and within such local limits, as the 2[State Government]
appoints in this behalf.
(2) Any Inspector-General may hold simultaneously any other office under the 3[Government].
4. [Branch Inspector-General of Sindh (Repealed).]—Rep. by the Government of India (Adaptation of
Indian Laws) Order, 1937.
5. Districts and sub-districts.—(1) For the purposes of this Act, the 2[State Government] shall form
districts and sub-districts, and shall prescribe, and may alter, the limits of such districts and sub-districts.
(2) The districts and sub-districts formed under this section, together with the limits thereof, and
every alternation of such limits, shall be notified in the 4[Official Gazette].
(3) Every such alternation shall take effect on such day after the date of the notification as is therein
mentioned.
6. Registrars and Sub-Registrars.—The 2[State Government] may appoint such persons, whether
public officers or not, as it thinks proper, to be Registrars of the several districts, and to be Sub-Registrars
of the several sub-districts, formed as aforesaid, respectively.
5

*

*

*

*

*

7. Offices of Registrar and Sub-Registrar.—(1) The 2[State Government] shall establish in every
district an office to be styled the office of the Registrar and in every sub-district an office or offices to be
styled the office of the Sub-Registrar or the offices of the Joint Sub-Registrars.
(2) The 2[State Government] may amalgamate with any office of a Registrar, any office of a
Sub-Registrar subordinate to such Registrar, and may authorise any Sub-Registrar whose office has been
so amalgamated to exercise and perform, in addition to his own powers and duties, all or any of the
powers and the duties of the Registrar to whom he is subordinate:
Provided that no such authorisation shall enable a Sub-Registrar to hear an appeal against an order
passed by himself under this Act.
8. Inspectors of Registration offices.—(1) The 2[State Government] may also appoint officers to be
called Inspector of Registration offices, and may prescribe the duties of such officers.
(2) Every such Inspector shall be subordinate to the Inspector-General.
1. Clause (11) omitted by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and Schedule. Earlier it was inserted by the A.O. 1950.
2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.
3. Subs., ibid., for “the Crown”.
4. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Local Official Gazette”.
5. The proviso rep. by the A.O. 1937. Earlier it was inserted by Act 4 of 1914, s. 2 and the Schedule.

5

9. [Military cantonments may be declared sub-districts or districts (Repealed).] Rep. by the Repealing
and Amending Act, 1927 (10 of 1927), s. 3 and Second Schedule.]
10. Absence of Registrar or vacancy in his office.—(1) When any Registrar, other than the
Registrar of a district including a Presidency-town, is absent otherwise than on duty in his district, or
when his office is temporarily vacant, any person whom the Inspector-General appoints in this behalf, or,
in default of such appointment, the Judge of the District Court within the local limits of whose
jurisdiction the Registrar’s office is situate, shall be the Registrar during such absence or until the 1[State
Government] fills up the vacancy.
(2) When the Registrar of a district including a Presidency-town is absent otherwise than on duty in
his district, or when his office is temporarily vacant, any person whom the Inspector-General appoints in
this behalf shall be the Registrar during such absence, or until the 1[State Government] fills up the
vacancy.
11. Absence of Registrar on duty in his district.—When any Registrar is absent from his office on
duty in his district, he may appoint any Sub-Registrar or other person in his district to perform, during
such absence, all the duties of a Registrar except those mentioned in sections 68 and 72.
12. Absence of Sub-Registrar or vacancy in his office.—When any Sub-Registrar is absent, or
when his office is temporarily vacant, any person whom the Registrar of the district appoints in this
behalf shall be Sub-Registrar during such absence, or until 2[the vacancy is filled up].
13. Report to State Government of appointments under sections 10, 11 and 12.—(1) 3*** All
appointments made under section 10, section 11 or section 12 shall be reported to the 1[State
Government] by the Inspector-General.
(2) Such report shall be either special or general, as the l[State Government] directs.
4

*

*

*

*

*

5

14. Establishments of registering officers.— ***
(2) The 1[State Government] may allow proper establishments for the several offices under this Act.
15. Seal of registering officers.—The several Registrars and Sub-Registrars shall use a seal bearing
the following inscription in English and in such other language as the 1[State Government] directs:—“The
seal of the Registrar (or of the Sub-Registrar) of”.
16. Register-books and fire-proof boxes.—(1) The 1[State Government] shall provide for the office
of every registering officer the books necessary for the purposes of this Act.
(2) The books so provided shall contain the forms from time to time prescribed by the InspectorGeneral, with the sanction of the 1[State Government], and the pages of such books shall be consecutively
numbered in print, and the number of pages in each book shall be certified on the title page by the officer
by whom such books are issued.
(3) The 1[State Government] shall supply the office of every Registrar with a fire-proof box, and shall
in each district make suitable provision for the safe custody of the records connected with the registration
of documents in such district.
6

[16A. Keeping of books in computer floppies, diskettes, etc.—(1) Notwithstanding anything
contained in section 16, the books provided under sub-section (1) of that section may also be kept in
computer floppies or diskettes or in any other electronic form in the manner and subject to the safeguards
as may be prescribed by the Inspector-General with the sanction of the State Government.
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.
2. Subs. by Act 4 of 1914, s. 2 and the Schedule, for “the Local Government fills up the vacancy”.
3. The words and figure “All appointments made by the Inspector-General section 6 and” rep. by the A.O. 1937. Earlier these
words and figure were ins. by Act 4 of 1914, s. 2 and the Schedule.
4. Sub-section (3) rep. by the A.O. 1937.
5. Sub-section (1) rep., ibid.,
6. Ins. by Act 48 of 2001, s. 2 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).

6

(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act or in any other law for the time being in force, a
copy or extracts from the books kept under sub-section (1) given by the registering officer under his hand
and seal shall be deemed to be a copy given under section 57 for the purposes of sub-section (5) of that
section.]
PART III
OR REGISTRABEL DOCUMENTS
17. Documents of which registration is compulsory.—(1) The following documents shall
be registered, if the property to which they relate is situate in a district in which, and if they have been
executed on or after the date on which, Act No. XVI of 1864, or the Indian Registration Act, 1866, or the
Indian Registration Act, 1871, or the Indian Registration Act, 1877, or this Act came or comes into force,
namely:—
(a) instruments of gift of immovable property;
(b) other non-testamentary instruments which purport or operate to create, declare, assign, limit
or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether vested or contingent,
of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards, to or in immovable property;
(c) non-testamentary instruments which acknowledge the receipt or payment of any consideration
on account of the creation, declaration, assignment, limitation or extinction of any such right, title or
interest; and
(d) leases of immovable property from year to year, or for any term exceeding one year, or
reserving a yearly rent;
1

[(e) non-testamentary instruments transferring or assigning any decree or order of a Court or any
award when such decree or order or award purports or operates to create, declare, assign, limit or
extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether vested or contingent, of
the value of one hundred rupees and upwards, to or in immovable property:]
Provided that the 2[State Government] may, by order published in the 3[Official Gazette], exempt
from the operation of this sub-section any lease executed in any district, or part of a district, the terms
granted by which do not exceed five years and the annual rents reserved by which do not exceed fifty
rupees.
4

[(1A) The documents containing contracts to transfer for consideration, any immovable property for
the purpose of section 53A of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882) shall be registered if they
have been executed on or after the commencement of the Registration and Other Related laws
(Amendment) Act, 2001 (48 of 2001) and if such documents are not registered on or after such
commencement, then, they shall have no effect for the purposes of the said section 53A.]
(2) Nothing in clauses (b) and (c) of sub-section (1) applies to—
(i) any composition deed; or
(ii) any instrument relating to shares in a joint stock Company, notwithstanding that the assets
of such Company consist in whole or in part of immovable property; or
(iii) any debenture issued by any such Company and not creating, declaring, assigning,
limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest, to or in immovable property except in so far
as it entitles the holder to the security afforded by a registered instrument whereby the Company
has mortgaged, conveyed or otherwise transferred the whole or part of its immovable property or
any interest therein to trustees upon trust for the benefit of the holders of such debentures; or
1. Ins. by Act 21 of 1929, s. 10.
2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.
3. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Local Official Gazette”.
4. Ins. by Act 48 of 2001, s. 3 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).

7

(iv) any endorsement upon or transfer of any debenture issued by any such Company; or
(v) 1[any document other than the documents specified in sub-section (1A)] not itself
creating, declaring, assigning, limiting or extinguishing any right, title or interest of the value of
one hundred rupees and upwards to or in immovable property, but merely creating a right to
obtain another document which will, when executed, create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish
any such right, title or interest; or
(vi) any decree or order of a Court 2[except a decree or order expressed to be made on a
compromise and comprising immovable property other than that which is the subject-matter of
the suit or proceeding]; or
(vii) any grant of immovable property by 3[Government]; or
(viii) any instrument of partition made by a Revenue-Officer; or
(ix) any order granting a loan or instrument of collateral security granted under the Land
Improvement Act, 1871, or the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883; or
(x) any order granting a loan under the Agriculturists, Loans Act, 1884, or instrument for
securing the repayment of a loan made under that Act; or
4

[(xa) any order made under the Charitable Endowments Act, 1890 (6 of 1890), vesting any
property in a Treasurer of Charitable Endowments or divesting any such Treasurer of any
property; or]
(xi) any endorsement on a mortgage-deed acknowledging the payment of the whole or any
part of the mortgage-money, and any other receipt for payment of money due under a mortgage
when the receipt does not purport to extinguish the mortgage; or
(xii) any certificate of sale granted to the purchaser of any property sold by public auction by
a Civil or Revenue-Officer.
5

[Explanation.—A document purporting or operating to effect a contract for the sale of immovable
property shall not be deemed to require or ever to have required registration by reason only of the fact that
such document contains a recital of the payment of any earnest money or of the whole or any part of the
purchase money.]
(3) Authorities to adopt a son, executed after the 1st day of January, 1872, and not conferred by a
will, shall also be registered.
18. Documents of which registration is optional.—Any of the following documents may be
registered under this Act, namely:—
(a) Instruments (other than instruments of gift and wills) which purport or operate to create,
declare, assign, limit or extinguish, whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether
vested or contingent, of a value less then one hundred rupees, to or in immovable property;
(b) instruments acknowledging the receipt or payment of any consideration on account of the
creation, declaration, assignment, limitation or extinction of any such right, title or interest;
(c) leases of immovable property for any term not exceeding one year, and leases exempted under
section 17;
6

[(cc) instruments transferring or assigning any decree or order of a Court or any award when
such decree or order or award purports or operates to create, declare, assign, limit or extinguish,

1. Subs. by Act 48 of 2001, s. 3, for “any document” (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
2. Subs. by Act 21 of 1929, s. 10, for “and any award”.
3. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Crown”.
4. Ins. by Act 39 of 1948, s. 2.
5. Ins by Act 2 of 1927, s. 2.
6. Ins. by Act 33 of 1940, s. 2.

8

whether in present or in future, any right, title or interest, whether vested or contingent, of a value less
than one hundred rupees, to or in immovable property;]
(d) instruments (other than wills) which purport or operate to create, declare, assign, limit or
extinguish any right, title or interest to or in movable property;
(e) wills; and
(f) all other documents not required by section 17 to be registered.
19. Documents in language not understood by registering officer.—If any document duly
presented for registration be in a language which the registering officer does not understand, and which is
not commonly used in the district he shall refuse to register the documents, unless it be accompanied by a
true translation into a language commonly used in the district and also by a true copy.
20. Documents containing interlineations, blanks, erasures or alterations.—(1) The registering
officer may in his discretion refuse to accept for registration any document in which any interlineation,
blank, erasure or alteration appears, unless the persons executing the document attest with their signatures
or initials such interlineation, blank, erasure or alteration.
(2) If the registering officer registers any such document, he shall, at the time of registering the same,
make a note in the register of such interlineation, blank, erasure or alteration.
21. Description of property and maps or plans.—(1) No non-testamentary document relating to
immovable property shall be accepted for registration unless it contains a description of such property
sufficient to identify the same.
(2) Houses in towns shall be described as situate on the north or other side of the street or road (which
should be specified) to which they front, and by their existing and former occupancies, and by their
numbers if the houses in such street or road are numbered.
(3) Other houses and lands shall be described by their name, if any, and as being the territorial
division in which they are situate, and by their superficial contents, the roads and other properties on to
which they abut, and their existing occupancies, and also, whenever it is practicable, by reference to a
Government map or survey.
(4) No non-testamentary document containing a map or plan of any property comprised therein shall
be accepted for registration unless it is accompanied by a true copy of the map or plan, or, in case such
property is situate in several districts, by such number of true copies of the map or plan as are equal to the
number of such districts.
22. Description of houses and land by reference to Government maps or surveys.— (1) Where it
is, in the opinion of the 1[State Government], practicable to describe houses, not being houses in towns,
and lands by reference to a Government map or survey, the 1[State Government] may, by rule made under
this Act, require that such houses and lands as aforesaid shall, for the purposes of section 21, be so
described.
(2) Save as otherwise provided by any rule made under sub-section (1), failure to comply with the
provisions of section 21, sub-section (2) or sub-section (3), shall not disentitle a document to
be registered if the description of the property to which it relates is sufficient to identify that property.
PART IV
OF THE TIME OF PRESENTATION
23. Time for presenting documents.—Subject to the provisions contained in sections 24, 25 and 26,
no document other than a will shall be accepted for registration unless presented for that purpose to the
proper officer within four months from the date of its execution:

1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.

9

Provided that a copy a of a decree or order may be presented within four months from the day on
which the decree or order was made, or, where it is appealable, within four months from the day on which
it becomes final.
1

[23A. Re-registration of certain documents.—Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained
in this Act, if in any case a document requiring registration has been accepted for registration by a
Registrar or Sub-Registrar from a person not duly empowered to present the same, and has been
registered, any person claiming under such document may, within four months form his first becoming
aware that the registration of such document is invalid, present such document or cause the same to be
presented, in accordance with the provisions of Part VI for re-registration in the office of the Registrar of
the district in which the document was originally registered; and upon the Registrar being satisfied that
the document was so accepted for registration from a person not duly empowered to present the same, he
shall proceed to the re-registration of the document as if it has not been previously registered, and as if
such presentation for re-registration was a presentation for registration made within the time allowed
therefore under Part IV, and all the provisions of this Act, as to registration of documents, shall apply to
such re-registration; and such document, if duly re-registered in accordance with the provisions of this
section, shall be deemed to have been duly registered for all purposes from the date of its original
registration:
Provided that, within three months from the twelfth day of September, 1917, any person claiming
under a document to which this section applies may present the same or cause the same to be presented
for re-registration in accordance with this section, whatever may have been the time when he first became
aware that the registration of the document was invalid.
24. Documents executed by several persons at different times.—Where there are several persons
executing a document at different times, such document may be presented for registration and
re-registration within four months from the date of each execution.
25. Provision where delay in presentation is unavoidable.—(1) If, owing to urgent necessity or
unavoidable accident, any document executed, or copy of a decree or order made, in 2[India] is not
presented for registration till after the expiration of the time hereinbefore prescribed in that behalf, the
Registrar, in cases where the delay in presentation does not exceed four months, may direct that, on
payment of a fine not exceeding ten times the amount of the proper registration-fee, such document shall
be accepted for registration.
(2) Any application for such direction may be lodged with a Sub-Registrar, who shall forthwith
forward it to the Registrar to whom he is subordinate.
26. Documents executed out of India.—When a document purporting to have been executed by all
or any of the parties out of 2[India] is not presented for registration till after the expiration of the time
hereinbefore prescribed in that behalf, the registering officer, if satisfied—
(a) that the instrument was so executed, and
(b) that it has been presented for registration within four months after its arrival in 2[India],
may, on payment of the proper registration-fee accept such document for registration.
27. Wills may be presented or deposited at any time.—A will may at any time be presented for
registration or deposited in manner hereinafter provided.
PART V
OF THE PLACE OF REGISTRATION
28. Place for registering documents relating to land.—Save as in this Part otherwise provided,
every document mentioned in section 17, sub-section (1), clauses (a), (b), (c) 3[, (d) and (e), section 17,
sub-section (2), insofar as such document affects immovable property,] and section 18, clauses (a),
1. Ins. by Act 15 of 1917, s. 2.
2. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule, for “the State”.
3. Subs. by Act 33 of 1940, s. 3, for “and (d)”.

10

(b) 1[(c) and (cc),] shall be presented for registration in the office of a Sub-Registrar within whose
sub-district the whole or some portion of the property to which such document relates is situate.
29. Place for registering other documents.—(1) Every document 2[not being a document referred to
in section 28 or a copy of a decree or order], may be presented for registration either in the office of the
Sub-Registrar in whose sub-district the document was executed, or in the office of any other
Sub-Registrar under the 3[State Government] at which all the persons executing and claiming under the
document desire the same to be registered.
(2) A copy of a decree or order may be presented for registration in the office of the Sub-Registrar in
whose sub-district the original decree or order was made, or, where the decree or order does not affect
immovable property, in the office of any the Sub-Registrar under the 2[State Government] at which all the
persons claiming under the decree or order desire the copy to be registered.
30. Registration by Registrars in certain cases.—(1) Any Registrar may in his discretion receive
and register any document which might be registered by any Sub-Registrar subordinate to him.
4

*

*

*

*

*

31. Registration or acceptance for deposit at private residence.—In ordinary cases the registration
or deposit of documents under this Act shall be made only at the office of the officer authorised to accept
the same for registration or deposit:
Provided that such officer may on special cause being shown attend at the residence of any person
desiring to present a document for registration or to deposit a will, and accept for registration or deposit
such document or will.
PART IV
OF PRESENTING DOCUMENTS FOR REGISTRATION
32. Persons to present documents for registration.—Except in the cases mentioned in 5[sections
31, 88 and 89], every document to be registered under this Act, whether such registration be compulsory
or optional, shall be presented at the proper registration-office,—
(a) by some person executing or claiming under the same, or, in the case of a copy of a decree or
order, claiming under the decree or order, or
(b) by the representive or assign of such a person, or
(c) by the agent of such a person, representative or assign, duly authorised by power-ofattorney executed and authenticated in manner hereinafter mentioned.
6

[32A. Compulsory affixing of photograph, etc.—Every person presenting any document at the
proper registration office under section 32 shall affix his passport size photograph and fingerprints to the
document:
Provided that where such document relates to the transfer of ownership of immovable property, the
passport size photograph and fingerprints of each buyer and seller of such property mentioned in the
document shall also be affixed to the document.]
33. Power-of-attorney recognisable for purposes of section 32.—(1) For the purposes of section
32, the following powers-of-attorney shall alone be recognized, namely:—

1. Subs. by Act 33 of 1940, s. 3, for “and (c)”.
2. Subs. by Act 32 of 1940, s. 3 and the first Schedule, for certain words.
3. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.
4. Sub-section (2) omitted by Act 48 of 2001, s. 4 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
5. Subs. by Act 39 of 1948, s. 3, for “section 31 and section 89”.
6. Ins. by Act 48 of 2001, s. 5 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).

11

(a) if the principal at the time of executing the power-of-attorney resides in any part of 1[India] in
which this Act is for the time being in force, a power-of-attorney executed before and authenticated
by the Registrar or Sub-Registrar within whose district or sub-district the principal resides;
(b) if the principal at the time aforesaid 2[resides in any part of India in which this Act is not in
force], a power-of-attorney executed before and authenticated by any Magistrate;
(c) if the principal at the time aforesaid does not reside in 1[India], a power-of-attorney executed
before and authenticated by a Notary Public, or any Court, Judge, Magistrate, 3[Indian] Consul or
Vice-Consul, or representative 4*** of the Central Government:
Provided that the following persons shall not be required to attend at any registration-office or Court
for the purpose of executing any such power-of-attorney as is mentioned in clauses (a) and (b) of this
section, namely:—
(i) persons who by reason of bodily infirmity are unable without risk or serious inconvenience so
to attend;
(ii) persons who are in jail under civil or criminal process; and
(iii) persons exempt by law from personal appearance in court.
[Explanation.—In this sub-section “India” means India, as defined in clause (28) of section 3 of the
General Clauses Act, 1897 (10 of 1897).]
5

(2) In the case of every such person the Registrar or Sub-Registrar or Magistrate, as the case may be,
if satisfied that the power-of-attorney has been voluntarily executed by the person purporting to be the
principal, may attest the same without requiring his personal attendance at the office or Court aforesaid.
(3) To obtain evidence as to the voluntary nature of the execution, the Registrar or Sub-Registrar or
Magistrate may either himself go to the house of the person purporting to be the principal, or to the jail in
which he is confined, and examine him, or issue a commission for his examination.
(4) Any power-of-attorney mentioned in this section may be proved by the production of it without
further proof when it purports on the face of it to have been executed before and authenticated by the
person or Court hereinbefore mentioned in that behalf.
34. Enquiry before registration by registering officer.—(1) Subject to the provisions contained in
this Part and in sections 41, 43, 45, 69, 75, 77, 88 and 89, no document shall be registered under this Act,
unless the persons executing such document, or their representatives, assigns or agents authorised as
aforesaid, appear before the registering officer within the time allowed for presentation under sections 23,
24, 25 and 26:
Provided that, if owing to urgent necessity or unavoidable accident all such persons do not so appear,
the Registrar, in cases where the delay in appearing does not exceed four months, may direct that on
payment of a fine not exceeding ten times the amount of the proper registration fee, in addition to the fine,
if any, payable under section 25, the document may be registered.
(2) Appearances under sub-section (1) may be simultaneous or at different times.
(3) The registering officer shall thereupon—
(a) enquire whether or not such document was executed by the persons by whom it purports to
have been executed;
(b) satisfy himself as to the identity of the persons appearing before him and alleging that they
have executed the document; and

1. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule, for “the State”.
2. Subs. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3, and the Schedule, for “resides in any other part of the States”.
3. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “British”.
4. The words “of His Majesty or” omitted, ibid.
5. Ins. by Act 3 of 1951, s. 3 and the Schedule.

12

(c) in the case of any person appearing as a representative, assign or agent, satisfy himself of the
right of such person so to appear.
(4) Any application for a direction under the proviso to sub-section (1) may be lodged with a SubRegistrar, who shall forthwith forward it to the Registrar to whom he is subordinate.
(5) Nothing in this section applies to copies of decrees or orders.
35. Procedure on admission and denial of execution respectively.—(1) (a) If all the persons
executing the document appear personally before the registering officer and are personally known to him,
or if he be otherwise satisfied that they are the person they represent themselves to be, and if they all
admit the execution of the document, or
(b) if in the case of any person appearing by a representative, assign or agent, such representative,
assign or agent admits the execution, or
(c) if the person executing the document is dead, and his representative or assign appears before
the registering officer and admits the execution,
the registering officer shall register the document as directed in sections 58 to 61 inclusive.
(2) The registering officer may, in order to satisfy himself that the persons appearing before him are
the persons they represent themselves to be, or for any other purpose contemplated by this Act, examine
any one present in his office.
(3) (a) If any person by whom the document purports to be executed denies its execution, or
(b) if any such person appears to the registering officer to be a minor, an idiot or a lunatic, or
(c) if any person by whom the document purports to be executed is dead, and his representative or
assign denies its execution,
the registering officer shall refuse to register the document as to the person so denying, appearing
or dead:
Provided that, where such officer is a Registrar, he shall follow the procedure prescribed in Part XII:
1

[Provided further that the 2[State Government] may, by notification in the 3[Official Gazette], declare
that any Sub-Registrar named in the notification shall, in respect of documents the execution of which is
denied, be deemed to be a Registrar for the purposes of this sub-section and of Part XII.]
PART VII
OF ENFORCING THE APPEARANCE OF EXECUTANTS AND WITNESSES
36. Procedure where appearance of executant or witness is desired.—If any person presenting
any document for registration or claiming under any document, which is capable of being so presented,
desires the appearance of any person whose presence or testimony is necessary for the registration of such
document, the registering officer may, in his discretion, call upon such Officer or Court as the 2[State
Government] directs in this behalf to issue a summons requiring him to appear at the registration office,
either in person or by duly authorised agent, as in the summons may be mentioned, and at a time named
therein.
37. Officer or Court to issue and cause service of summons.—The officer or Court, upon receipt of
the peon's fee payable in such cases, shall issue the summons accordingly, and cause it to be served upon
the person whose appearance is so required.
38. Persons exempt from appearance at registration-office.—(1) (a) A person who by reason of
bodily infirmity is unable without risk or serious inconvenience to appear at the registration-office, or
(b) a person in jail under civil or criminal process, or
1. Ins. by Act 13 of 1926, s. 2.
2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.
3. Subs. by the A.O. 1939, for “Local Official Gazette”.

13

(c) person exempt by law from personal appearance in Court, and who would but for the
provisions next hereinafter contained be required to appear in person at the registration-office, shall
not be required so to appear.
(2) In the case of every such person the registering officer shall either himself go to the house of such
person, or to the jail in which he is confined, and examine him or issue a commission for his examination.
39. Law as to summonses, commissions and witnesses.—The law in force for the time being as to
summonses, commissions and compelling the attendance of witnesses, and for their remuneration in suits
before Civil Courts, shall, save as aforesaid and mutatis mutandis, apply to any summons or commission
issued and any person summoned to appear under the provisions of this Act.
PART VIII
OF PRESENTING WILLS AND AUTHORITIES TO ADOPT
40. Persons entitled to present wills and authorities to adopt.—(1) The testator, or after his death
any person claiming as executor or otherwise under a will, may present it to any Registrar or
Sub-Registrar for registration.
(2) The donor, or after his death the done, of any authority to adopt, or the adoptive son, may present
it to any Registrar or Sub-Registrar for registration.
41. Registration of wills and authorities to adopt.—(1) A will or an authority to adopt, presented
for registration by the testator or donor, may be registered in the same manner as any other document.
(2) A will or authority to adopt presented for registration by any other person entitled to present it
shall be registered if the registering officer is satisfied—
(a) that the will or authority was executed by the testator or donor, as the case may be;
(b) that the testator or donor is dead; and
(c) that the person presenting the will or authority is, under section 40, entitled to present the
same.
PART IX
OF THE DEPOSIT OF WILLS
42. Deposit of wills.—Any testator may, either personally or by duly authorised agent, deposit with
any Registrar his will in a sealed cover super scribed with the name of the testator and that of his agent (if
any) and with a statement of the nature of the document.
43. Procedure on deposit of wills.—(1) On receiving such cover, the Registrar, if satisfied that the
person presenting the same for deposit is the testator or his agent, shall transcribe in his Register-book
No. 5 the superscription aforesaid, and shall note in the same book and on the said cover the year, month,
day and hour of such presentation and receipt, and the names of any persons who may testify to the
identity of the testator or his agent, and any legible inscription which may be on the seal of the cover.
(2) The Registrar shall then place and retain the sealed cover in his fire-proof box.
44. Withdrawal of sealed cover deposited under section 42.—If the testator who has deposited
such cover wishes to withdraw it, he may apply, either personally or by duly authorised agent, to the
Registrar who holds it in deposit, and such Registrar, if satisfied that the applicant is actually the testator
or his agent, shall deliver the cover accordingly.
45. Proceedings on death of depositor.—(1) If, on the death of a testator who has deposited a sealed
cover under section 42, application be made to the Registrar who holds it in deposit to open the same, and
if the Registrar is satisfied that the testator is dead, he shall, in the applicant's presence, open the cover,
and, at the applicant's expense, cause the contents thereof to be copied into his Book No. 3.
(2) When such copy has been made, the Registrar shall re-deposit the original will.

14

46. Saving of certain enactments and powers of Courts.—(1) Nothing hereinbefore contained shall
affect the provisions of section 259 of the Indian Succession Act, 1865, or of section 81 of the Probate
and Administration Act, 1881, or the power of any Court by order to compel the production of any will.
(2) When any such order is made, the Registrar shall, unless the will has been already copied under
section 45, open the cover and cause the will to be copied into his Book No. 3 and make a note on such
copy that the original has been removed into Court in pursuance of the order aforesaid.
PART X
OF THE EFFECTS OF REGISTRATION AND NON-REGISTRATION
47. Time from which registered document operates.—A registered document shall operate from
the time which it would have commenced to operate if no registration thereof had been required or made,
and not from the time of its registration.
48. Registered documents relating to property when to take effect against oral
agreements.— All non-testamentary documents duly registered under this Act, and relating to any
property, whether movable or immovable, shall take effect against any order agreement or declaration
relating to such property, unless where the agreement or declaration has been accompanied or followed
by delivery of possession 1[and the same constitutes a valid transfer under any law for the time being in
force:
Provided that a mortgage as defined in section 58 of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882),
shall take effect against any mortgage-deed subsequently executed and registered which relates to the
same property.]
49. Effect of non-registration of documents required to be registered.—No document required by
section 17 1[or by any provision of the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882)], to be registered
shall—
(a) affect any immovable property comprised therein, or
(b) confer any power to adopt, or
(c) be received as evidence of any transaction affecting such property or conferring such power,
unless it has been registered:
1

[Provided that an unregistered document affecting immovable property and required by this Act or
the Transfer of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882), to be registered may be received as evidence of a contract
in a suit for specific performance under Chapter II of the Specific Relief Act, 1877 (3 of 1877) 2, 3*** or
as evidence of any collateral transaction not required to be effected by registered instrument.]
50. Certain registered documents relating to land to take effect against unregistered
documents.—(1) Every document of the kinds mentioned in clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of section 17,
sub-section (1), and clauses (a) and (b) of section 18, shall, if duly registered, take effect as regards the
property comprised therein, against every unregistered document relating to the same property, and not
being a decree or order, whether such unregistered document be of the same nature as the registered
document or not.
(2) Nothing in sub-section (1) applies to leases exempted under the proviso to sub-section (1) of
section 17 or to any document mentioned in sub-section (2) of the same section, or to any registered
document which had not priority under the law in force at the commencement of this Act.
Explanation.—In cases, where Act No. 16 of 1864 or the Indian Registration Act, 1866 (20 of 1866),
was in force in the place and at the time in and at which such unregistered document was executed,
“unregistered” means not registered according to such Act, and, where the document is executed after the
1. Ins. by Act 21 of 1929, s. 10.
2. See now the Specific Relief Act, 1963 (47 of 1963).
3. The words, figures and letter “or as evidence of part performance of a contract for the purposes of section 53A of the Transfer
of Property Act, 1882 (4 of 1882)” omitted by Act 48 of 2001, s. 6 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).

15

first day of July, 1871, not registered under the Indian Registration Act, 1871 (8 of 1871), or the Indian
Registration Act, 1877 (3 of 1877), or this Act.
PART XI
OF THE DUITES AND POWERS OF REGISTERING OFFICERS
(A) As to the Register-books and Indexes
51. Register-books to be kept in the several offices.—(1) The following books shall be kept in the
several offices hereinafter named, namely:—
A— In all registration offices—
Book 1, “Register of non-testamentary documents relating to immovable property”.
Book 2, “Record of reasons for refusal to register”.
Book 3, “Register of wills and authorities to adopt”, and
Book 4, “Miscellaneous Register”.
B— In the offices of Registrars—
Book 5, “Register of deposits of wills”.
(2) In Book 1 shall be entered or filed all documents or memoranda registered under sections 17, 18
and 89 which relate to immovable property, and are not wills.
(3) In Book 4 shall be entered all documents registered under clauses (d) and (f) of section 18 which
do not relate to immovable property.
(4) Nothing in this section shall be deemed to require more than one set of books where the office of
the Registrar has been amalgamated with the office of a Sub-Registrar.
52. Duties of registering officers when document presented.—(1) (a) The day, hour and place of
presentation, 1[the photographs and finger prints affixed under section 32A,] and the signature of every
person presenting a document for registration, shall be endorsed on every such document at the time of
presenting it;
(b) a receipt for such document shall be given by the registering officer to the person presenting
the same; and
(c) subject to the, provisions contained in section 62, every document admitted to registration
shall without unnecessary delay be copied in the book appropriated therefore according to the order
of its admission.
(2) All such books shall be authenticated at such intervals and in such manner as is from time to time
prescribed by the Inspector-General.
53. Entries to be numbered consecutively.—All entries in each book shall be numbered in a
consecutive series, which shall commence and terminate with the year, a fresh series being commenced at
the beginning of each year.
54. Current indexes and entries therein.—In every office in which any of the books hereinbefore
mentioned are kept, there shall be prepared current indexes of the contents of such books; and every entry
in such indexes shall be made, so far as practicable, immediately after the registering officer has copied,
or filed a memorandum of, the document to which it relates.
55. Indexes to be made by registering officers, and their contents.—(1) Four such indexes shall be
made in all registration offices, and shall be named, respectively, Index No. I, Index No. II, Index No. Ill
and Index No. IV.

1. Ins. by Act 48 of 2001, s. 7 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).

16

(2) Index No. I shall contain the names and additions of all persons executing and of all persons
claiming under every document entered or memorandum filed in Book No. 1.
(3) Index No. II shall contain such particulars mentioned in section 21 relating to every such
document and memorandum as the Inspector-General from time to time directs in that behalf.
(4) Index No. III shall contain the names and additions of all persons executing every will and
authority entered in Book No. 3, and of the executors and persons respectively appointed thereunder, and
after the death of the testator or the donor (but not before) the names and additions of all persons claiming
under the same.
(5) Index No. IV shall contain the names and additions of all persons executing and of all persons
claiming under every document entered in Book No. 4.
(6) Each Index shall contain such other particulars, and shall be prepared in such form, as the
Inspector-General from time to time directs.
56. [Copy of entries in Indexes Nos. I, II and III to be sent by Sub-Registrar to Registrar and filed
(Repealed)] Rep. by the Indian Registration (Amendment) Act, 1929 (15 of 1929), s. 2.
(B) As to the procedure on admitting to registration
57. Registering officers to allow inspection of certain books and indexes, and to give certified
copies of entries.—(1) Subject to the previous payment of the fees payable in that behalf, the Books Nos.
1 and 2 and the Indexes relating to Book No. 1 shall be at all time open to inspection by any person
applying to inspect the same; and, subject to the provisions of section 62, copies or entries in such books
shall be given to all persons applying for such copies.
(2) Subject to the same provisions, copies of entries in Book No. 3 and in the Index relating thereto
shall be given to the persons executing the documents to which such entries relate, or to their agents, and
after the death of the executants (but not before) to any person applying for such copies.
(3) Subject to the same provisions, copies of entries in Book No. 4 and in the Index relating thereto
shall be given to any person executing or claiming under the documents to which such entries
respectively refer, or to his agent or representative.
(4) The requisite search, under this section for entries in Book Nos. 3. and 4 shall be made only by the
registering officer.
(5) All copies given under this section shall be signed and sealed by the registering officer, and shall
be admissible for the purpose of proving the contents of the original documents.
58. Particulars to be endorsed on documents admitted to registration.—(1) On every document
admitted to registration, other than a copy of a decree or order, or a copy sent to a registering officer
under section 89, there shall be endorsed from time to time the following particulars, namely:—
(a) the signature and addition of every person admitting the execution of the document, and, if
such execution has been admitted by the representative, assign or agent of any person, the signature
and addition of such representative, assign or agent;
(b) the signature and addition of every person examined in reference to such document under any
of the provisions of this Act; and
(c) any payment of money or delivery of goods made in the presence of the registering officer in
reference to the execution of the document, and any admission of receipt of consideration, in whole or
in part, made in his presence in reference to such execution.
(2) If any person admitting the execution of a document refuses to endorse the same, the registering
officer shall nevertheless register it, but shall at the same time endorse a note of such refusal.
59. Endorsements to be dated and signed by registering officer.—The registering officer shall
affix the date and his signature to all endorsements made under sections 52 and 58, relating to the
same document and made in his presence on the same day.
17

60. Certificate of registration.—(1) After such of the provisions of sections 34, 35, 58 and 59 as
apply to any document presented for registration have been complied with, the registering officer shall
endorse thereon a certificate containing the word “registered”, together with the number and page of the
book in which the document has been copied.
61. Endorsements and certificate to be copied and document returned.—(1) The endorsements
and certificate referred to and mentioned in sections 59 and 60 shall thereupon be copied into the margin
of the Register-book, and the copy of the map or plan (if any) mentioned in section 21 shall be filed in
Book No. 1.
(2) The registration of the document shall thereupon be deemed complete, and the document shall
then be returned to the person who presented the same for registration, or to such other person (if any) as
he has nominated in writing in that behalf on the receipt mentioned in section 52.
62. Procedure on presenting document in language unknown to registering officer.—(1) When a
document is presented for registration under section 19, the translation shall be transcribed in the register
of documents of the nature of the original, and, together with the copy referred to in section 19, shall be
filed in the registration office.
(2) The endorsements and certificate respectively mentioned in sections 59 and 60 shall be made on
the original, and, for the purpose of making the copies and memoranda required by sections 57, 64, 65
and 66, the translation shall be treated as if it were the original.
63. Power to administer oaths and record of substance of statements.—(1) Every registering
officer may, at his discretion, administer an oath to any person examined by him under the provisions of
this Act.
(2) Every such officer may also at his discretion record a note of the substance of the statement made
by each such person, and such statement shall be read over, or (if made in a language with which such
person is not acquainted) interpreted to him in a language with which he is acquainted, and, if he admits
the correctness of such note, it shall be signed by the registering officer.
(3) Every such note so signed shall be admissible for the purpose of proving that the statements
therein recorded were made by the persons and under the circumstances therein stated.
(C) Special duties of Sub-Registrar
64. Procedure where document relates to land in several sub-districts.—Every Sub-Registrar on
registering a non-testamentary document relating to immovable property not wholly situate in his own
sub-district shall make a memorandum thereof and of the endorsement and certificate (if any) thereon,
and send the same to every other Sub-Registrar subordinate to the same Registrar as himself in whose
sub-district any part of such property is situate, and such Sub-Registrar shall file the memorandum in his
Book No. 1.
65. Procedure where document relates to land in several districts.—(1) Every Sub-Registrar on
registering a non-testamentary document relating to immovable property situate in more districts than one
shall also forward a copy thereof and of the endorsement and certificate (if any) thereon, together with a
copy of the map or plan (if any) mentioned in section 21, to the Registrar of every district in which any
part of such property is situate other than the district in which his own sub-district is situate.
(2) The Registrar on receiving the same shall file in his Book No. 1 the copy of the document and the
copy of the map or plan (if any), and shall forward a memorandum of the document to each of the SubRegistrars subordinate to him within whose sub-district any part of such property is situate; and every
Sub-Registrar receiving such memorandum shall file in his Book No. 1.
(D) Special duties of Registrar
66. Procedure after registration of documents relating to land.—(1) On registering any nontestamentary document relating to immovable properly, the Registrar shall forward a memorandum of
such document to each Sub-Registrar subordinate to himself in whose sub-district any part of the property
is situate.
18

(2) The Registrar shall also forward a copy of such document, together with a copy of the map or plan
(if any) mentioned in section 21, to every other Registrar in whose district any part of such property is
situate.
(3) Such Registrar on receiving any such copy shall file it in his Book No. 1, and shall also send a
memorandum of the copy to each of the Sub-Registrars subordinate to him within whose sub-district any
part of the property is situate.
(4) Every Sub-Registrar receiving any memorandum under this section shall file it in his Book No. 1.
67. [Procedure after registration under section 30, sub-section (2).] Omitted by the Registration and
Other Related Laws (Amendment) Act, 2001 (48 of 2001), s. 8 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
(E) Of the Controlling powers of Registrar and Inspector-General
68. Power of Registrar to superintend and control Sub-Registrars.—(1) Every Sub-Registrar
shall perform the duties of his office under the superintendence and control of the Registrar in whose
district the office of such Sub-Registrar is situate.
(2) Every Registrar shall have authority to issue (whether on complaint or otherwise) any order
consistent with this Act which he considers necessary in respect of any act or omission of any SubRegistrar subordinate to him or in respect of the rectification of any error regarding the book or the office
in which any document has been registered.
69. Power of Inspector-General to superintend registration offices and make rules.—(1) The
Inspector-General shall exercise a general superintendence over all the registration offices in the
territories under the 1[State Government], and shall have power from time to time to make rules consistent
with this Act—
(a) providing for the safe custody of books, papers and documents; 2***
3

[(aa) providing the manner in which and the safeguards subject to which the books may be kept
in computer floppies or diskettes or in any other electronic form under sub-section (1) of section
16A;]
(b) declaring what language shall be deemed to be commonly used in each district;
(c) declaring what territorial divisions shall be recognized under section 21;
(d) regulating the amount of fines imposed under sections 25 and 34, respectively;
(e) regulating the exercise of the discretion reposed in the registering officer by section 63;
(f) regulating the form in which registering officers are to make memoranda of documents;
(g) regulating the authentication by Registrars and Sub-Registrars of the books kept in their
respective offices under section 51;
4

[(gg) regulating the manner in which the instruments referred to in sub-section (2) of section 88
may be presented for registration;]
(h) declaring the particulars to be contained in Indexes Nos. I, II, III and IV, respectively;
(i) declaring the holidays that shall be observed in the registration offices; and
(j) generally, regulating the proceedings of the Registrars and Sub-Registrars.
(2) The rules so made shall be submitted to the 1[State Government] for approval, and, after they have
been approved, they shall be published in the 5[Official Gazette], and on publication shall have effect as if
enacted in this Act.
1. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for "Provincial Government".
2. The words “and also for the destruction of such books, papers and documents as need no longer be kept” rep. by Act 5 of
1917, s. 6 and the Schedule.
3. Ins. by Act 48 of 2001, s. 9 (w.e.f. 24-9-2001).
4. Ins. by Act 39 of 1948, s. 4.
5. Subs. by the A.O. 1937, for “Local Official Gazette”.

19

70. Power of Inspector-General to remit fines.—The Inspector-General may also, in the exercise of
his discretion, remit wholly or in part the difference between any fine levied under section 25 or section
34, and the amount of the proper registration fee.
PART XII
OF REFUSAL TO REGISTER
71. Reasons for refusal to register to be recorded.—(1) Every Sub-Registrar refusing to register
a document, except on the ground that the property to which it relates is not situate within his sub-district,
shall make an order of refusal and record his reasons for such order in his Book No. 2, and endorse the
words “registration refused” on the document; and, on application made by any person executing or
claiming under the document, shall, without payment and unnecessary delay, give him a copy of the
reasons so recorded.
(2) No registering officer shall accept for registration a document so endorsed unless and until, under
the provisions hereinafter contained, the document is directed to be registered.
72. Appeal to Registrar from orders of Sub-Registrar refusing registration on ground other
than denial of execution.—(1) Except where the refusal is made on the ground of denial of execution, an
appeal shall lie against an order of a Sub-Registrar refusing to admit a document to registration (whether
the registration of such document is compulsory or optional) to the Registrar to whom such Sub-Registrar
is subordinate, if presented to such Registrar within thirty days from the date of the order; and the
Registrar may reverse or alter such order.
(2) If the order of the Registrar directs the document to be registered and the document is duly
presented for registration within thirty days after the making of such order, the Sub-Registrar shall obey
the same, and thereupon shall, so far as may be practicable, follow the procedure prescribed in sections
58, 59 and 60; and such registration shall take effect as if the document had been registered when it was
first duly presented for registration.
73. Application to Registrar where Sub-Registrar refuses to register on ground of denial of
execution.—(1) When a Sub-Registrar has refused to register a document on the ground that any person
by whom it purports to be executed, or his representative or assign, denies its execution, any person
claiming under such document, or his representative, assign or agent authorised as aforesaid, may, within
thirty days after the making of the order of refusal, apply to the Registrar to whom such Sub-Registrar is
subordinate in order to establish his right to have the document registered.
(2) Such application shall be in writing and shall be accompanied by a copy of the reasons recorded
under section 71, and the statements in the application shall be verified by the applicant in manner
required by law for the verification of plaints.
74. Procedure of Registrar on such application.—In such case, and also where such denial as
aforesaid is made before a Registrar in respect of a document presented for registration to him, the
Registrar shall, as soon as conveniently may be, enquire.—
(a) whether the document has been executed;
(b) whether the requirements of the law for the time being in force have been complied with on
the part of the applicant or person presenting the document for registration, as the case may be, so as
to entitle the document to registration.
75. Order by Registrar to register and procedure thereon.—(1) If the Registrar finds that the
document has been executed and that the said requirements have been complied with, he shall order the
document to be registered.
(2) If the document is duly presented for registration within thirty days after the making of such order,
the registering officer shall obey the same and thereupon shall, so far as may be practicable, follow the
procedure prescribed in sections 58, 59 and 60.
(3) Such registration shall take effect as if the document had been registered when it was first duly
presented for registration.
20

(4) The Registrar may, for the purpose of any enquiry under section 74, summon and enforce the
attendance of witness, and compel them to give evidence, as if he were a Civil Court and he may also
direct by whom the whole or any part of the costs of any such enquiry shall be paid, and such costs shall
be recoverable as if they had been awarded in a suit under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908).
76. Order of refusal by Registrar.—(1) Every Registrar refusing—
(a) to register a document except on the ground that the property to which it relates is not situate
within his district or that the document ought to be registered in the office of a Sub-Registrar, or
(b) to direct the registration of a document under section 72 or section 75,
shall make an order of refusal and record the reasons for such order in his Book No. 2, and, on application
made by any person executing or claiming under the document, shall, without unnecessary delay, give
him a copy of the reasons so recorded.
(2) No appeal lies from any order by a Registrar under this section or section 72.
77. Suit in case of order of refusal by Registrar.—(1) Where the Registrar refuses to order the
document to be registered, under section 72 or a decree section 76, any person claiming under such
document, or his representative, assign or agent, may, within thirty days after the making of the order of
refusal, institute in the Civil Court, within the local limits of whose original jurisdiction is situate the
office in which the document is sought to be registered, a suit for a decree directing the document to be
registered in such office if it be duly presented for registration within thirty days after the passing of such
decree.
(2) The provisions contained in sub-sections (2) and (3) of section 75 shall, mutatis mutandis, apply
to all documents presented for registration in accordance with any such decree, and, notwithstanding
anything contained in this Act, the documents shall be receivable in evidence in such suit.
PART XIII
OF THE FEES FOR REGISTRATION, SEARCHES AND COPIES
78. Fees to be fixed by State Government.—1*** The 2[State Government] shall prepare a table of
fees payable—
(a) for the registration of documents;
(b) for searching the registers;
(c) for making or granting copies of reasons, entries or documents, before on or after registration;
and of extra or additional fees payable—
(d) for every registration under section 30;
(e) for the issue of commissions;
(f) for filing translations;
(g) for attending at private residences;
(h) for the safe custody and return of document; and
(i) for such other matters as appear to the Government necessary to effect the purposes of this
Act.
79. Publication of fees.—A table of the fees so payable shall be published in the Official Gazette,
and a copy thereof in English and the vernacular language of the district shall be exposed to public view
in every registration office.

1. The words “Subject to the control of the Governor-General in Council” omitted by Act 38 of 1920, s. 2, and the First Schedule.
2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.

21

80. Fees payable on presentation.—All fees for the registration of documents under this Act shall be
payable on the presentation of such documents.
PART XIV
OF PENALTIES
81. Penalty for incorrectly endorsing, copying, translating or registering documents with intent
to injure.—Every registering officer appointed under this Act and every person employed in his office
for the purposes of this Act, who, being charged with the endorsing, copying, translating or registering of
any document presented or deposited under its provisions, endorses, copies, translates or registers such
document in a manner which he knows or believes to be incorrect, intending thereby to cause or knowing
it to be likely that he may thereby cause, injury, as defined in the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), to any
person, shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine,
or with both.
82. Penalty for making false statements, delivering false copies or translations, false
personation, and abetment.—Whoever—
(a) intentionally makes any false statement, whether on oath or not, and whether it has been
recorded or not, before any officer acting in execution of this Act, in any proceeding or enquiry under
this Act; or
(b) intentionally delivers to a registering officer, in any proceeding under section 19 or section 21,
a false copy or translation of a document, or a false copy of a map or plan; or
(c) falsely personates another, and in such assumed character presents any document, or makes
any admission or statement, or causes any summons or commission to be issued, or does any other act
in any proceeding or enquiry under this Act; or
(d) abets anything made punishable by this Act,
shall be punishable with imprisonment for a term which may extend to seven years, or with fine, or with
both.
83. Registering officers may commence prosecutions.—(1) A prosecution for any offence under
this Act coming to the knowledge of a registering officer in his official capacity may be commenced by or
with the permission of the Inspector-General, 1*** the Registrar or the Sub-Registrar, in whose territories,
district or sub-district, as the case may be, the offence has been committed.
(2) Offences punishable under this Act shall be triable by any Court or officer exercising powers not
less than those of a Magistrate of the second class.
84. Registering officers to be deemed public servants.—(1) Every registering officer appointed
under this Act shall be deemed to be a public servant public servant within the meaning of the Indian
Penal Code (45 of 1860).
(2) Every person shall be legally bound to furnish information to such registering officer when
required by him to do so.
(3) In section 228 of the Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), the words “judicial proceeding” shall be
deemed to include any proceeding under this Act.
PART XV
MISCELLANEOUS
85. Destruction of unclaimed documents.—Documents (other than wills) remaining unclaimed in
any registration office for a period exceeding two years may be destroyed.

1. The words "the Branch Inspector-General of Sindh", omitted by the A.O. 1937.

22

86. Registering officer not liable for thing bona fide done or refused in his official capacity.—No
registering officer shall be liable to any suit, claim or demand by reason of anything in good faith done or
refused in his official capacity.
87. Nothing so done invalidated by defect in appointment or procedure.—Nothing done in good
faith pursuant to this Act or any Act hereby repealed, by any registering officer, shall be deemed invalid
merely by reason of any defect in his appointment or procedure.
1

[88. Registration of documents executed by Government officers or certain public
functionaries.—(1) Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, it shall not be necessary for,—
(a) any officer of Government, or
(b) any Administrator-General, Official Trustee or Official Assignee, or
(c) the Sheriff, Receiver or Registrar of a High Court, or
(d) the holder for the time being of such other public office as may be specified in a notification
in the Official Gazette issued in that behalf by the State Government,
to appear in person or by agent at any registration office in any proceeding connected with the registration
of any instrument executed by him or in his favour, in his official capacity, or to sign as provided in
section 58.
(2) Any instrument executed by or in favour of an officer of Government or any other person referred
to in sub-section (1) may be presented for registration in such manner as may be prescribed by rules made
under section 69.
(3) The registering officer to whom any instrument is presented for registration under this section
may, if he thinks fit, refer to any Secretary to Government or to such officer of Government or other
person referred to in sub-section (1) for information respecting the same and, on being satisfied of the
execution thereof, shall register the instrument.]
89. Copies of certain orders, certificates and instruments to be sent to registering officers and
filed.—(1) Every officer granting a loan under the Land Improvement Loans Act, 1883 (19 of 1883),
shall send a copy of his order to the registering officer within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
whole or any part of the land to be improved or of the land to be granted as collateral security, is situate,
and such registering officer shall file the copy in his Book No. 1.
(2) Every Court granting a certificate of sale of immovable property under the Code of Civil
Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), shall send a copy of such certificate to the registering officer within the local
limits of whose jurisdiction the whole or any part of the immovable property comprised in such certificate
is situate, and such officer shall file the copy in his Book No. 1.
(3) Every officer granting a loan under the Agriculturists’ Loans Act, 1884 (12 of 1884), shall send a
copy of any instrument whereby immovable property is mortgaged for the purpose of securing the
repayment of the loan, and, if any such property is mortgaged for the same purpose in the order granting
the loan, a copy also or that order, to the registering officer within the local limits of whose jurisdiction
the whole or any part of the property so mortgaged is situate, and such registering officer shall file the
copy or copies as the case may be, in his Book No. 1.
Exemption from Act
(4) Every Revenue Officer granting a certificate of sale to the purchaser of immovable property sold
by public auction shall send a copy of the certificate to the registering officer within the local limits of
whose jurisdiction the whole or any part of the immovable property comprised in the certificate is situate,
and such officer shall file the copy in his Book No. 1.
90. Exemption of certain documents executed by or in favour of Government.—(1) Nothing
contained in this Act or in the Indian Registration Act, 1877 (3 of 1877), or in the Indian Registration Act,

1. Subs. by Act 39 of 1948, s. 5, for section 88.

23

1871 (8 of 1871), or in any Act thereby repealed, shall be deemed to require, or to have at any time
required, the registration of any of the following documents or maps, namely:—
(a) documents issued, received or attested by any officer engaged in making a settlement or
revision or settlement of land-revenue, and which form part of the records of such settlement; or
(b) documents and maps issued, received or authenticated by any officer engaged on behalf of
Government in making or revising the survey of any land, and which form part of the record of such
survey; or
(c) documents which, under any law for the time being in force, are filed periodically in any
revenue office by patwaris or other officers charged with the preparation of village records; or
(d) sanads, inam, title-deeds and other documents purporting to be or to evidence grants or
assignments by Government of land or of any interest in land; or
(e) notices given under section 74 or section 76 of the Bombay Land-Revenue Code, 1879, or
relinquishment of occupancy by occupants, or of alienated land by holders of such land.
(2) All such documents and maps shall, for the purposes of sections 48 and 49, be deemed to have
been and to be registered in accordance with the provisions of this Act.
91. Inspection and copies of such documents.—1[(1)] Subject to such rules and the previous
payment of such fees as the 2[ 3[State Government], by notification in the Official Gazette, prescribes in
this behalf], all documents and maps mentioned in section 90, clauses (a), (b), (c), and (e), and all
registers of the documents mentioned in clause (d), shall be open to the inspection of any person applying
to inspect the same, and, subject as aforesaid, copies of such documents shall be given to all persons
applying for such copies.
4

[(2) Every rule prescribed under this sub-section or made under section 69 shall be laid, as soon as it
is made, before the State Legislature.]
92. [Burmese registration-rules confirmed] Rep. by the Government of India (Adaptation of Indian
Laws) Order, 1937.
93. [Repeals] Rep. by the Repealing Act, 1938 (1 of 1938), s. 2 and Schedule.
THE SCHEDULE. [Repeal of Enactments]. Rep. by s. 2 and the Schedule, ibid.
________

1. Section 91 renumbered as sub-section (1) thereof by Act 20 of 1983, s. 2 and Schedule.
2. Subs. by the A.O. 1950, for “Provincial Government”.
3. Subs., ibid., for “State Government prescribes in this behalf”.
4. Ins. by Act 20 of 1983, s. 2 and Schedule (w.e.f. 15-3-1984).

24




APPENDIX.
NOTIFICATION.
In exercise of the powers conferred by section 84 of the Real Estate (Regulation
and Development) Act, 2016 (Central Act 16 of 2016), the Governor of Tamil Nadu,
hereby makes the following rules, namely:CHAPTER I.
PRELIMINARY.
1. Short title and commencement.- (1) These rules may be called the Tamil Nadu
Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017.
(2) It shall come into force on the 22nd June 2017
2. Definitions.- In these rules, unless the context otherwise requires,(a) “Act” means the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016
(Central Act 16 of 2016);
(b) “Agreement for Sale” means an agreement for sale and/or construction
agreement as prescribed in Annexure „A‟ to these rules;
(c) “Association” means the Association referred to in rule 10;
(d) “authenticated copy” means a self-attested copy of any document required to
be provided by any person under these rules;
(e) “Form” means a form appended to these rules;
(f) “Government” means the Government of Tamil Nadu;
(g) “layout plan” means a plan of the project depicting the division or proposed
division of land into plots, roads, open spaces, amenities, etc., and other
details as may be necessary;
(h) “Ongoing project” means, a project where development is going on and for
which completion certificate has not been issued but excludes such projects
which fulfill any of the following criteria on the date of coming into force of
sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act:(i)
in layout projects i.e., where land is developed into plots, the roads
and open spaces gifted to the local body concerned;
(ii)
the projects in Chennai Metropolitan Area for which application for
completion certificate has been filed with Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority subject to furnishing certificate from the
architect/licensed surveyor/structural engineer associated with the
project to the effect that all the buildings in the projects have been
structurally completed i.e. all the columns, beams and slabs have
been erected supported with photographs. Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority will issue, completion certificate for those
projects in compliance with Completion Certificate norms prescribed.
In Completion Certificate filed cases, if the Completion Certificate is
rejected by Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority for
violation of norms, such projects will be intimated to the Real Estate
Regulatory Authority and will be bound for registration with Real
Estate Regulatory Authority. The details of all projects where
Completion Certificate application has been filed with Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority prior to notification of these
rules will be disclosed to the public by publishing the list of all such

2

(iii)

projects on the website of Chennai Metropolitan Development
Authority and Real Estate Regulatory Authority immediately after
notification of these rules.
in the case of projects under execution outside Chennai Metropolitan
Area, as no provision and procedure has yet been prescribed for issue
of completion certificate, if the construction is structurally completed
meaning that all the columns, beams and slabs have been erected and
certified by the architect or structural engineer/licensed surveyor
associated with the project supported with photographs. Such
projects shall be intimated to the concerned Local Planning
Authority or Regional Deputy Director of the Town and Country
Planning Department within 15 days from the date of notification of
these rules with a copy marked to the office of the Director of Town
and Country Planning. The Director of Town and Country Planning
will make public the list of all such projects in his official website,
on the 16th day of notification of the rules besides publication of the
same in the website of Real Estate Regulatory Authority.

“project land” means any parcel or parcels of land on which the project is
developed and constructed by a promoter;
(j) “Parking” means the parking space(s) as shown in the plans approved by the
planning authority;
(k) “Reserved Car Park” means an enclosed or unenclosed, covered or open area
which is sufficient in size to park vehicles and which may be provided in
basements and/or stilt and/or podium and/or independent structure built for
providing parking spaces and/or parking provided by mechanized parking
arrangements and which is not a garage and
(2) Words and expressions used herein and not defined, but defined in the Act,
shall have the same meaning, respectively, assigned to them in the Act.
(i)

CHAPTER II.
REAL ESTATE PROJECT.
3. Information and documents to be furnished by the promoter for registration of
project.- (1) The promoter shall furnish the following additional information and
documents, along with those specified under the Act, for registration of the real estate
project with the Authority, namely:(a) authenticated copy of the PAN card of the promoter;
(b) audited balance sheet of the promoter firm/company for the preceding financial year;
(c) copy of the legal title deed reflecting the title of the promoter to the land on which
development is proposed to be developed along with legally valid documents with
authentication of such title, if such land is owned by another person;
(d) the details of encumbrances on the land on which development is proposed including
any rights, title, interest or name of any party in or over such land along with details;
(e) where the promoter is not the owner of the land on which development is proposed,
the details of the consent of the owner of the land along with a copy of collaboration
agreement, development agreement, joint development agreement or any other

3

agreement, as the case may be, entered into between the promoter and such owner
and copies of title and other documents reflecting the title of such owner on the land
proposed to be developed;
(f) latitude and longitude details of the project site to monitor the progress of the work
by the Authority;
(g) copies of the approved plan and approval letter along with the No objection
Certificates submitted while obtaining planning permission and building licence;
(h) parking spaces(s) as shown in the approved plan of the said real estate project;
(i) detailed design and drawing for Structural Stability, Electrical Wiring, plumbing,
Sewage Treatment Plans, etc.;
(j) such other information and documents, as may be specified by the Authority in its
regulations.
(2) The application referred to in sub-section (1) of section 4 of the Act, shall be made in
writing in Form „A‟, which shall be submitted in triplicate, until the application procedure
is made web based as provided under sub-section (3) of section 4 of the Act.
(3) The promoter shall pay a registration fee at the time of application for registration for
a sum calculated at the rate as specified by the Authority, from time to time. The
registration fee shall not be levied for the Tamil Nadu Slum Clearance Board developed
projects, Affordable Housing projects of the Tamil Nadu Housing Board and Housing
projects executed by the Tamil Nadu Police Housing Corporation.
(4) The declaration to be submitted under clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the
Act, shall be in Form „B‟, which shall include a declaration stating that the promoter shall
not discriminate against any allottee at the time of allotment of any apartment, plot or
building, as the case may be.
(5) In case the promoter applies for withdrawal of application for registration of the
project before the expiry of the period of thirty days provided under sub-section (1) of
section 5 of the Act, registration fee as specified in the regulations made by the Authority
shall be retained as processing fee by the Authority and the remaining amount shall be
refunded to the promoter within thirty days from the date of such withdrawal.
4. Disclosure by promoters of existing projects.- (1) On the date of coming into force
of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act, promoters of all ongoing projects shall within
the time specified in the said sub-section, make an application to the Authority in the
form and manner provided in rule 3.
Explanation I.- Any agreement already entered between the promoter and the
allottee before commencement of these rules shall not be affected.
Explanation II .- If the project has been conceived to be developed in phases, where
the plans for the initial phase are approved by the planning authority prior to the date

4

of coming into force of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act, then for such projects
the requirement of obtaining two third consent from existing allottee, under clause
(ii)

of

sub-section

(2)

of

section

14

of

the

Act

is

exempted

for

addition/revision/modification of plans for subsequent phase/s of development,
provided the scheme of developing the project in phased manner has been agreed
upon by the allottee and promoter in the agreements executed between them;
Explanation III.- If the approval from the planning authority is obtained for larger
extent of land, but where the development is conceived to be in phases, the promoter
shall be permitted to register each phase as an independent project with the Authority.
In such case, the requirement of obtaining two third consent from existing allottee
under clause (ii) of sub-section (2) of section 14 of the Act is exempted for
addition/revision/modification of plans for subsequent phases of development,
provided the development in phases has been agreed upon by the allottee and
promoter in the agreements executed between them, when there is no reduction in
the common area and there is no change in the total built up area of the registered
phase/project.
Explanation IV.- It is not mandatory to substitute the prescribed form of agreement
for sale, construction or any other documents executed by the allottee, in respect of
the apartment, plot or building for the on going projects prior to the date of coming
into force of sub-section (1) of section 3 of the Act, the same shall be legally valid
and enforceable and shall not be construed to limit the rights of the allottee under
the Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder.
(2) The promoter shall disclose all project details as required under the Act and the rules
and regulations made thereunder, including the status of the project and the extent of
completion.
(3) The promoter shall disclose the size of the apartment based on carpet area even if
earlier sold on any other basis such as super area, super built up area, built up area, etc.,
which shall not affect the validity of the agreement entered into between the promoter and
the allottee to that extent.
(4) In case of plotted development, the promoter shall disclose the actual area of the plot
even if earlier sold on any other basis such as including the cost of Open Space
Reservation area and splay area, development charges, etc., which shall not affect the
validity of the agreement entered into between the promoter and the allottee to that extent.

5

5. Withdrawal of sums deposited in separate account.- (1) For the purposes of subclause (D) of clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act, the land cost shall be the
market value of the land including the costs incurred by the promoter towards the stamp
duty and the registration fees for acquiring ownership over the land either for freehold or
leasehold
(2) For the purposes of sub-clause (D) of clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the
Act, the construction cost shall be the cost incurred by the promoter, towards the on-site
expenditure for the physical development of the project including the cost incurred by
way of fees/charges paid towards obtaining necessary statutory clearances including cost
of Transfer of Development Rights, premium Floor Space Index charges, Finance Cost
for the construction of the project and professional consulting charges.
Explanation: For the purpose of sub-clause (D) of clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section
4 of the Act, the engineer shall certify that the items shown in the cost of construction is
matching to the physical condition at the site of the real estate project; the architect shall
certify that the physical condition at the site is built as per the sanctioned plan; and
chartered accountant shall certify the cost incurred on construction cost and land cost; the
chartered accountant shall also certify the proportion of the cost incurred on construction
and land cost to the total estimated cost of the project. After completion of the project, the
promoter shall be entitled to withdraw the balance amount lying in the separate account
subject to obtaining the certificate from the engineer, architect and chartered accountant
as mentioned above.
6. Grant or rejection of registration of the project.- (1) Upon the registration of a
project as per section 5 read with section 3 of the Act, the Authority shall issue a
registration certificate with a registration number in Form „C‟ to the promoter.
(2) In case of rejection of the application under section 5 of the Act, the Authority shall
inform the applicant in Form „D‟.
7. Extension of registration of the project.- (1) The registration granted under section 5
of the Act, may be extended as provided under section 6 of the Act, on an application
made by the promoter in Form „E‟ which shall not be less than three months prior to the
date of expiry of the registration granted. The Authority may condone the delay for filing
the renewal application after the date of expiry, upon collection of late fee of ten percent
of the registration fee as fixed by the Authority.
(2) The application for extension of registration shall be accompanied with a demand
draft drawn on any scheduled bank, for an amount as may be specified by regulations

6

made by the Authority as provided under sub-rule (3) of rule 3 along with an explanatory
note setting out the reasons for delay in the completion of the project and the need for
extension of registration for the project, along with documents supporting such reasons:
Provided that where the extension of registration is due to force majeure, the
authority may, at its discretion, waive the fee for extension of registration.
(3) Extension of registration of the project shall not be beyond the period provided as per
local laws for completion of the project or phase thereof, as the case may be.
(4) In case of extension of registration, the Authority shall inform the promoter about the
same in Form „F‟ and in case of rejection of the application for extension of registration,
the Authority shall, after giving an opportunity to the applicant to be heard in the matter
as provided in the second proviso to section 6 of the Act, inform the promoter about the
same in Form „D‟.
(5) Any sale of an unit in any development project after the lapse of registration period
with the Authority and after obtaining the completion certificate from the Competent
Authority within the prescribed period as per local laws shall not be treated as offence as
prescribed in sub section (2) of section 59 of the Act.
8. Revocation of registration of the project.- Upon revocation of registration of a
project under section 7, the Authority shall inform the promoter about such revocation in
Form „D‟. The details of such revocation of registration shall be released to press
periodically and hosted in the website of the Authority.
9. Agreement for sale and construction agreement.- (1) For the purpose of sub-section
(2) of section 13 of the Act, the agreement for sale of undivided share of land or plot of
land and construction agreement for construction of apartment, as the case may be, shall
be in the Form in Annexure „A‟.
(2) Any application, allotment letter or any other document signed by the allottee, in
respect of the apartment, plot or building, prior to the execution and registration of the
agreement for sale and construction agreement for such apartment, plot or building, as
the case may be, shall not be construed to limit the rights and interests of the allottee
under the agreement for sale or the construction agreement or under the Act or under
the rules or regulations made thereunder.
(3) Project relating to construction of apartment, the promoter may convey the undivided
share of land including the proportionate share in the common area directly to the
respective allottees.
(4) Under the agreement for sale or construction agreement, the promoter is permitted to
allocate exclusive right of usage of Reserved Car Park to the allottee and such right of
exclusive usage shall form an indivisible part of the apartment and shall be
transferable along with the apartment.

7

10. Formation of association.- The association of allottees shall be formed, registered
and governed by the provisions contained in the Tamil Nadu Apartment Ownership Act,
1994 (Tamil Nadu Act 7 of 1995), and the applicable rules for the time being in force.
The Association shall take over the maintenance of the project including the common
areas and amenities provided in the project within 3 months from the date of intimation
by the promoter upon completion of the project.
CHAPTER III.
REAL ESTATE AGENT.
11. Application for registration by the real estate agent.- (1) Every real estate agent
required to register under sub-section (2) of section 9 of the Act shall make an application
in writing to the Authority in Form „G‟ along with the following documents, namely:(a) brief details of his enterprise including its name, registered address, type of
enterprise (proprietorship, societies, partnership, companies, etc.);
(b) particulars of registration including the bye-laws, or memorandum of
association and articles of association, etc. as the case may be;
(c) photograph of the real estate agent if he is an individual and the photograph of
the partners, directors, etc., in case of other entities;
(d) authenticated copy of the PAN Card;
(e) authenticated copy of the address proof of the place of residence and business;
and
(f) such other information and documents, as may be specified by the Authority in
regulations.
(2) The real estate agent shall pay a registration fee at the time of application for
registration by way of a demand draft drawn on any scheduled bank for a sum of rupees
twenty-five thousand in case of the applicant being an individual; or a sum of rupees fifty
thousand in case of the applicant being anyone other than an individual.
12. Grant of registration to the real estate agent.- (1) Upon the registration of a real
estate agent, the Authority shall issue a registration certificate with a registration number
in Form „H‟ to the real estate agent.
(2) In case of rejection of the application, of registration, the Authority shall inform the
applicant in Form „I‟.
(3) The registration granted under this rule shall be valid for a period of five years.
13. Renewal of registration of real estate agent.- (1) The registration granted under
section 9 of the Act may be renewed as provided in section 6 of the Act, on an
application made by the real estate agent in Form „J‟ which shall be minimum one month
prior to expiry of the registration granted. The Authority may condone the delay for filing
the renewal application after the date of expiry upon collection of late fee of Rs.500/- and

8

Rs.5000/- (10 per cent of renewal fee) in case of individual and other than individual
respectively.
(2) The application for renewal of registration shall be accompanied with a demand draft
drawn on any scheduled bank, for a sum of rupees five thousand in case of the real estate
agent being an individual or rupees fifty thousand in case of the real estate agent being
anyone other than an individual.
(3) The real estate agent shall also submit all the updated documents set out in clauses (a)
to (g) of rule 11 at the time of application for renewal.
(4) In case of renewal of registration, the Authority shall inform the real estate agent
about the same in Form „K‟ and in case of rejection of the application for renewal of
registration, the Authority shall inform the real estate agent in Form „I‟:
Provided that no application for renewal of registration shall be rejected unless the
applicant has been given an opportunity of being heard.
(5) The renewal of registration of the real estate agent shall be granted provided that the
real estate agent remains in compliance with the provisions of the Act and the rules and
regulations made thereunder.
(6) The renewal granted under this rule shall be valid for a period of five years.
14. Revocation of registration of real estate agent.- The Authority may, for the reasons
specified under sub-section (7) of section 9 of the Act, revoke the registration granted to
the real estate agent or renewal thereof, as the case may be, and intimate the real estate
agent of such revocation in Form „I‟.
15. Maintenance and preservation of books of accounts, records and documents.The real estate agent shall maintain and preserve books of account, records and
documents in accordance with the provisions of the Income Tax Act, 1961 (Central Act
43 of 1961).
16. Other functions of a real estate agent.- The real estate agent shall provide assistance
to enable the allottee and promoter to exercise their respective rights and fulfil their
respective obligations at the time of booking and sale of any plot, apartment or building,
as the case may be.
CHAPTER IV.
DETAILS TO BE PUBLISHED ON THE WEBSITE OF THE AUTHORITY.
17. Details to be published on the website.- (1) For the purpose of clause (b) of section
34 of the Act, the Authority shall ensure that the following informations shall be made
available on its website in respect of each project registered, namely:(a) Details of the promoter including the following:-

9

(i)

Profile of the promoter:
(a) a brief detail of his enterprise including its name, registered address,
type of enterprise (proprietorship, limited liability partnership, society,
partnership, company, competent authority) and the particulars of
registration to be provided. In case of newly incorporated or registered
entity, brief details of the parent entity including its name, registered
address, type of enterprise (proprietorship, societies, limited liability
partnership, partnership, companies, competent authority) to be
provided;
(b) background of promoter- educational qualification, work experience
and in case of a newly incorporated or registered entity work
experience of the parent entity.

(ii)

Track record of the promoter:
(a) number of years of experience of the promoter or parent entity in
real estate construction in the State of Tamil Nadu;
(b) number of years of experience of the promoter or parent entity in
real estate construction in other states or union territories;
(c) number of completed projects and area constructed till date;
(d) number of ongoing projects and proposed area to be constructed;
(e) details and profile of ongoing and completed projects for the last 5
years as provided in clause (b) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the
Act.
(iii) Litigations: Details of litigations on the land;
(iv) Website:
(a) web link to the developer or group website;
(b) web link to the project website.
(b) Details of the real estate project including the following:
(i) Compliance and registration:
(A) authenticated copy of the approvals received from the competent
authorities as provided under clause (c) of sub-section (2) of section 4
of the Act;
(B) the sanctioned plan, layout plan and specifications of the project or the
phase thereof, and the whole project as sanctioned by the competent
authority as provided under clause (d) of sub-section (2) of section 4
of the Act;
(C) details of the registration granted by the Authority.
(ii) Apartment and parking related details:
(A) details of the number, type and carpet area of apartments for sale in
the project as provided under clause (h) of sub-section (2) of section 4
of the Act;

10

(B) details of the number and areas of covered parking for sale in the
project as provided under clause (i) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of
the Act;
(C) details of the number of open parking areas available in the real estate
project.
(iii) Registered Agents: Names and addresses of real estate agents as provided
under clause (j) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act.
(iv) Consultants: Details, including name and addresses of contractors,
architect and structural engineers, site engineers, construction engineers,
Quality Auditors, Geo-Technical Engineers, Town Planners,

project

management consultant, if any, and other persons concerned with the
development of the real estate project as provided under clause (k) of subsection (2) of section 4 of the Act, such as (A) Name and address of the firm;
(B) Names of promoters;
(C) Year of establishment;
(D) Names and profile of key projects completed.
(v) Location: The location details of the project, with clear demarcation of
land dedicated for the project along with its boundaries including the
latitude and longitude of the end points of the project as provided under
clause (f) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act.
(vi) Development Plan:
(A) The plan of development works to be executed in the proposed
project and the proposed facilities to be provided thereof including
fire fighting facilities, drinking water facilities, emergency
evacuation services, use of renewable energy etc., as provided under
clause (e) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act.
(B) Amenities: A detailed note explaining the salient features of the
proposed project including access to the project, design for electric
supply including street lighting, water supply arrangements and site
for disposal of solid and liquid wastes and treatment and disposal of
storm and sullage water, any other facilities and amenities or public
health services proposed to be provided in the project.

11

(C) Gantt Charts and Project Schedule: The plan of development works
to be executed in the project and the details of the proposed facilities
to be provided thereof.
(c) Financial details of the promoter:
(i) Authenticated copy of the PAN card of the promoter.
(ii) the annual report including audited profit and loss account, balance
sheet, cash flow statement, directors report and the auditor‟s report of the
promoter for the immediately preceding three financial years and where
annual report is not available then the audited profit and loss account,
balance sheet, cash flow statement and the auditor‟s report of the promoter
for the immediately preceding three financial years and in case of newly
incorporated or registered entity such information shall be disclosed for
the parent entity.
(d) The promoter shall upload the following updates on the webpage for the
project, within fifteen days from the expiry of each quarter:(i) List of number and types of apartments or plots, as the case may be,
booked;
(ii) List of number of parking lots booked;
(iii) Status of the project:
(A) Status of construction of each building with photographs;
(B) Status of construction of each floor with photographs;
(C) Status of construction of internal infrastructure and common areas
with photographs.
(iv) Status of approvals:
(A) Approval received;
(B) Approvals applied and expected date of receipt;
(C) Approvals to be applied and date planned for application;
(D) Modifications, amendment or revisions, if any, issued by the
competent authority with regard to any licence, permit or approval
for the project.
(e) The following documents should be available in a downloadable format:(i) Approvals:
(A) Applicable No objection certificates;
(B) Authenticated copy of the planning permission, building permit,
building sanction plan from competent authority in accordance with
the laws applicable for the project, and where the project is proposed
to be developed in phases, an authenticated copy of the planning

12

permission, building permit, building sanction plan, completion
certificate for each of such phases;
(C) Authenticated copy of the site plan or site map showing the location
of the project land along with survey numbers/block number/ward
number, village number and name/town name, taluk and district
name and area of each parcels of the project land;
(D) Authenticated copy of the layout plan of the project as sanctioned by
the competent authority;
(E) Floor plans for each tower and block including clubhouse, amenities
and common areas, etc;
(F) Any other permission, approval, or licence that may be required
under applicable law;
(G) Authenticated copy of completion certificate obtained, if applicable.
In the absence of statutory provisions for obtaining completion
certificate, the promoter shall upload certificate from an Architect,
Town Planner and Licensed Surveyor, etc., endorsing the completion
of the project.
ii) Legal Documents:
(A) Details including the proforma of the application form, allotment
letter, agreement for sale and the conveyance deed;
(B) Authenticated copy of the legal title deed including an upto date
encumbrance certificate, extract/certificate of Revenue Authorities
reflecting the title of the promoter to the land on which development
is proposed to be developed along with legally valid documents with
authentication of such title, if such land is owned by another person;
(C) Where the promoter is not the owner of the land on which
development is proposed details of the consent of the owner of the
land along with a copy of collaboration agreement, development
agreement, joint development agreement or any other agreement, as
the case may be, entered into between the promoter and such owner
and copies of title and other documents reflecting the title of such
owner on the land proposed to be developed;
(D) Sanction letters:
- From banks for construction finance;
- From banks for home loan tie-ups.

13

(f)
(g)

Contact details: Contact address, contact numbers and email-ids of the
promoter handling the project.
Such other documents or information as may be specified by the Act or the
rules and regulations made thereunder.

(2) For the purpose of clause (c) of section 34 of the Act, the Authority shall maintain a
database and ensure that the information specified therein shall be made available on its
website in respect of each project revoked or penalised, as the case may be.
(3) For the purpose of clause (d) of section 34 of the Act, the Authority shall ensure that
the following information shall be made available on its website in respect of each real
estate agent registered with it or whose application for registration has been rejected or
revoked:(a)

For real estate agents registered with the Authority:
(i) registration number and the period of validity of the registration of the real
estate agent with the Authority;
(ii) brief details of his enterprise including its name, registered address, type of
enterprise (proprietorship, societies, partnership, companies, etc.);
(iii) particulars of registration including the bye-laws, memorandum of
association, articles of association, etc., as the case may be;
(iv) photograph of the real estate agent if it is an individual and the photograph
of the partners, directors etc. in case of other persons;
(v) authenticated copy of the address proof of the place of business and the
contact address, contact numbers and email-id of the real estate agent.

(b) In case of applicants whose application for registration as a real estate agent
have been rejected or real estate agents whose registration has been revoked by
the Authority:
(i) registration number and the period of validity of the registration of the real
estate agent with the Authority;
(ii) brief details of his enterprise including its name, registered address, type of
enterprise (proprietorship, societies, partnership, companies, etc.);
(iii) photograph of the real estate agent if it is an individual and the photograph
of the partners, directors, etc., in case of other persons.
(c) Such other documents or information as may be specified by the Act or the
rules and regulations made thereunder.
(4) The Authority shall maintain a back-up, in digital form, of the contents of its website
in terms of this rule, and ensure that such back-up is updated on the last day of each
month.
CHAPTER V.
RATE OF INTEREST PAYABLE BY PROMOTER AND ALLOTTEE AND
TIMELINES FOR REFUND.
18. Rate of interest payable by the promoter and the allottee.- The rate of interest
payable by the promoter to the allottee or by the allottee to the promoter, as the case may

14

be, shall be the State Bank of India highest Marginal Cost of Lending Rate plus two
per cent:
Provided that in case the State Bank of India Marginal Cost of Lending Rate is not
in use it would be replaced by such benchmark lending rates which the State Bank of
India may fix from time to time for lending to the general public.
19. Timelines for refund.- (1) Any refund of monies along with the applicable interest
and compensation, if any, payable by the promoter in terms of the Act or the rules and
regulations made thereunder, shall be payable by the promoter to the allottee within
Ninety days from the date on which such refund along with applicable interest and
compensation, if any, becomes due.
(2) In case of termination of the agreement as per the terms recorded therein, such refund
and/or penalty and/or compensation shall be made by the party-in-breach to the other
party simultaneous to the execution of appropriate cancellation agreement and
registration, if required. If the defaulting party fails to come forward for execution of
registration agreement, the Authority shall have the right to execute such agreement on
behalf of the defaulting party.
The entitling allottee shall get full refund at any time if the builder has not followed the
time schedule. The builder shall not keep 10% of the booked value of the property. If the
allottee defaults in making timely payment as per terms of the agreement, the allottee
shall not have the right of claiming any interest or compensation from the promoter.

CHAPTER VI.
REAL ESTATE REGULATORY AUTHORITY.
20. Manner of selection of chairperson and members of the Authority.- (1) As and
when vacancies of Chairperson or a member in the Authority exist or arise, or are likely
to arise, the Government may make a reference to the Selection Committee in respect of
the vacancies to be filled.
(2) The Selection Committee may, for the purpose of selection of the Chairperson or a
Member of the Authority, follow such procedure as deemed fit including the appointment
of a search committee consisting of such persons as the Selection Committee considers
appropriate to suggest a panel of names possessing the requisite qualification and
experience and suitability for being considered for appointment as Chairperson or
Member of the Authority.

15

(3) The Selection Committee shall select two persons for each vacancy and recommend
the same to the Government.
(4) The Selection Committee shall make its recommendation to the Government within a
period of sixty days from the date of reference made under sub-rule (1).
(5) The Government shall within thirty days from the date of the recommendation by the
Selection Committee, appoint one of the two persons recommended by the Selection
Committee for the vacancy of the Chairperson or Member, as the case may be.
21. Salary and allowances payable and other terms and conditions of service of
Chairperson and Members of the Authority.- (1) The salaries and allowances payable
to the Chairperson and members of the Authority shall be as follows:
(a)

The Chairperson shall be paid a monthly salary equivalent to the salary and
allowances eligible to the Additional Secretary to Central Government;
(b) The whole-time member shall be paid monthly salary equivalent to the salary
and allowances eligible to the Joint Secretary to Central Government;
(c) Every part-time member, who is not a servant of the Government shall be
paid a sitting fee for each day he attends the meetings of the authority as may
be determined by the Government, from time to time, and they shall not be
entitled to any allowance relating to house and vehicle.
(2) The other allowances and conditions of service of the Chairperson and the whole-time
member shall be as per notification issued by the Government from time to time.
22. Administrative powers of the Chairperson of the Authority.- The administrative
powers of the Chairperson of the authority will be with regard to the following:(a)
(b)
(c)
(d)
(e)
(f)
(g)
(h)
(i)
(j)
(k)
(l)

matters pertaining to human resources, wages and salaries structures,
emoluments, perquisites and personnel policies;
matters pertaining to appointments, promotions and confirmation for all posts;
acceptance of resignations by any officer or employee;
In addition, the Chairperson will be responsible for officiating against
sanctioned posts;
authorization of tours to be undertaken by any member, officer or employees
within India and allowance to be granted for the same;
all matters in relation to grant or rejection of leaves;
permission for hiring of vehicles for official use;
nominations for attending seminars, conferences and training courses in India;
permission for invitation of guests to carry out training course;
sanction, scrapping or write-off of capital assets which due to normal wear and
tear have become unserviceable or are considered beyond economical repairs;
matters relating to disciplinary action against officer and employee;
any other powers that may be required for the efficient functioning of the
Authority and enforcement of the provisions of the Act and these rules.

16

23. Salary and allowances payable and other terms and conditions of service of the
officers and other employees of the Authority and experts and consultants engaged
by the Authority.- (1) The conditions of service of the officers and employees of the
Authority and any other category of employees in the matter of pay, allowances, leave,
joining time, joining time pay, age of superannuation and other conditions of service,
shall be regulated in accordance with such rules and regulations as are, from time to time,
applicable to officers and employees of the Government and drawing the corresponding
scales of pay;
(2) Consultants or experts that may be engaged by the Authority after a due selection
process.
(a) shall be paid a monthly honorarium as may be determined by the
Government from time to time;
(b) shall not be deemed to be regular members of the staff borne on the
establishment of the Authority;
(c) may be appointed for a tenure of one year or less, extendable on year to
year basis or part thereof;
(3) The terms of their appointment may be terminated by the Authority by serving one
month‟s notice.
(4) The Government shall have power to relax the provisions of any of these rules in
respect of any class or category of officers or employees or consultants and experts, as
the case may be.
24. Functioning of the Authority.- (1) The office of the Authority shall be located at
such place as may be determined by the Government by notification.
(2) The working days and office hours of the Authority shall be the same as that of the
Government.
(3) The official common seal and emblem of the Authority shall be such as the
Government may specify.
25. Additional powers of the Authority.- (1) In addition to the powers specified in
sub-section (2) of section 35 of the Act, the Authority shall have the following additional
powers, namely:
(a) To require the promoter, allottee or real estate agent to furnish in writing
such information or explanation or produce such documents within such
reasonable time, as it may deem necessary;
(b) requisitioning, subject to the provisions of sections 123 and 124 of the
Indian Evidence Act, 1872 (1 of 1872), any public record or document or
copy of such record or document from any office.
(2) The Authority may, call upon such experts or consultants from the fields of
economics, commerce, accountancy, real estate, town planning, competition, construction,

17

architecture, or engineering or from any other discipline as it deems necessary, to assist
the Authority in the conduct of any inquiry or proceedings before it.
(3) The Authority may, in the interest of the allottees, enquire into the payment of
amounts imposed as penalty, interest or compensation, paid or payable by the promoter,
in order to ensure that the promoter has not (a)
(b)

(c)

withdrawn the said amounts from the account maintained as provided under
sub-clause (D) of clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 4 of the Act; or
used any amounts paid to such promoter by the allottees for the real estate
project for which the penalty, interest or compensation is payable, or any
other real estate project;
recovered the amounts paid as penalty, fine or compensation from the
allottees of the relevant real estate project or any other real estate project.

(4) The Authority shall have the powers to levy fee and prescribe advertisement charges
and collect the same from the developers and advertisers willing to advertise on the
website of the authority besides prescribing and collecting any other charges or
fees/penalties from the developers/promoters/real estate agents or any other individual or
agency.
(5) The Authority shall advertise the vacancies and qualification and complete selection
process at least one month prior to the date on which vacancy arises in order to avoid any
gap in the office and to provide uninterrupted service of the Authority.
26. Manner of recovery of interest, penalty and compensation.- Subject to the
provisions of sub-section (1) of section 40 of the Act, the recovery of the amount due
under the Act shall be made as an arrear of land revenue under the Tamil Nadu Revenue
Recovery Act, 1864 (Tamil Nadu Act II of 1864).
27. Manner of implementation of order, direction or decisions of the adjudicating
officer, the Authority or the Appellate Tribunal.- For the purpose of sub-section (2) of
section 40 of the Act every order passed by the Adjudicating Officer, Authority or
Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, shall be enforced by the Adjudicating Officer,
Authority or the Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, in the same manner as if it were
a decree or order made by the Civil Court in a suit pending before it and it shall be lawful
for the Adjudicating Officer, Authority or Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be, in the
event of its inability to execute the order, send such order to the Civil Court, to execute
such order either within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the real estate project is
located or in the principal civil court within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the
person against whom the order is being issued, actually and voluntarily resides, or carries
on business, or personally works for gain.
28. Grants, Fees and Penalties.- (a) The grants from the Government, the registration
fee paid by the promoters, at the time of registration of application, the revenue
generated from advertisement charges on the website of the Authority, the registration
fees paid by the Real Estate Agent at the time of registration received under the Act and
interest accrued on the grants and fees will accrue to the Real Estate Regulatory Fund.

18

(b) All sums realized by way of penalties imposed by the Appellate Tribunal or the
Authority shall be credited to the Consolidated Fund of State Government.
CHAPTER VII.
REAL ESTATE APPELLATE TRIBUNAL.
29. Form for filing appeal and the fees payable.- (1) Every appeal filed under subsection (1) of section 44 of the Act, shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees One
thousand in the form of a demand draft drawn on a scheduled bank in favour of the
Appellate Tribunal and payable at the main branch of that Bank at the station where the
seat of the said Appellate Tribunal is situated.
(2) Every appeal shall be filed in Form „L‟ along with the following documents:(a) An attested true copy of the order against which the appeal is filed;
(b) Copies of the documents relied upon by the appellant and referred to in the
appeal;
(c) An index of the documents.
(3) Procedure for filing the appeal shall be as decided by the Appellate Tribunal.
30. Manner of selection of members of the Appellate Tribunal.- (1) As and when
vacancies of a member in the Appellate Tribunal exist or arise, or are likely to arise, the
Government may make a reference to the Selection Committee in respect of the vacancies
to be filled.
(2) The Selection Committee may, for the purpose of selection of the member of the
Appellate Tribunal, follow such procedure as deemed fit including the appointment of a
Search Committee consisting of such persons as the selection committee considers
appropriate to suggest a panel of names possessing the requisite qualification and
experience and suitable for being considered for appointment as member of the Appellate
Tribunal.
(3) The Selection Committee shall select two persons for each vacancy and recommend
the same to the Government.
(4) The Selection Committee shall make its recommendation to the Government within a
period of sixty days from the date of reference made under sub-rule (1).
(5) The Government shall within thirty days from the date of the recommendation by the
Selection Committee, appoint one of the two persons recommended by the Selection
Committee for the vacancy of the Member.
31. Salary and allowances payable and other terms and conditions of service of
Chairperson and members of the Appellate Tribunal.- (1) The salaries and allowances
payable to the Chairperson and members of the Appellate Tribunal shall be as follows:-

19

(a)
(b)

(c)

(d)

The Chairperson shall be paid a monthly salary equivalent to the last drawn
salary by such person, as a Judge of a High Court;
The whole-time member shall be paid a monthly salary equivalent to the last
drawn salary at the post held by such person, prior to his appointment as a
member of the Appellate Tribunal;
Every full-time member, who is not a servant of the Government, shall be
paid a monthly salary equivalent to the Additional Secretary to the
Government of India;
Every part-time Member, who is not a servant of the Government, shall be
paid a sitting fee for each day he attends the meetings of the Appellate
Tribunal as may be determined by the Government, from time to time.

(2) The other allowances and conditions of service including leave of the Chairperson and
the whole-time member shall be as prescribed by the Government, from time to time.
32. Procedure for inquiry of the charges against the Chairperson or Member of the
Authority or the Appellate Tribunal.- (1) In the event of the Government becoming
aware of occurrence of any of the circumstances specified in clause (d) or clause (e) of
sub-section (1) of section 26 of the Act in case of a Chairperson or member of the
Authority or as specified under sub-section (1) of section 49 of the Act in case of a
Chairperson or Member of the Appellate Tribunal, or by receipt of a complaint in this
regard or suo motu, as the case may be, the Government shall make a preliminary
scrutiny with respect to such charges against the Chairperson or any member of the
Authority or Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be.
(2) If, on preliminary scrutiny, the Government considers it necessary to investigate into
the allegation, it shall place the complaint, if any, together with supporting material as
may be available, before a Judge of the High Court appointed for the purpose by the
Chief Justice of the High Court on the request of the Government.
(3) The Government shall forward to the Judge, copies of(a)
(b)

the statement of charges against the Chairperson or member of the Authority
or Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be; and
material documents relevant to the inquiry.

(4) The Chairperson or member of the Authority or Appellate Tribunal, as the case may
be, shall be given a reasonable opportunity of being heard with respect to the charges
leveled against him within such time period as may be specified in this behalf by the
Judge.
(5) Where it is alleged that the Chairperson or member of the Authority or the Appellate
Tribunal as the case may be is unable to discharge the duties of his office efficiently due
to any physical or mental incapacity and the allegation is denied, the Judge may arrange

20

for the medical examination of the Chairperson or member of the Authority or the
Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be.
(6) After the conclusion of the investigation, the Judge shall submit his report to the
Government stating therein his findings and the reasons thereof on each of the articles of
charges separately with such observations on the whole case as he thinks fit.
(7) Thereafter, the Government shall, in consultation with the Chief Justice of the High
Court, decide either to remove or not to remove the Chairperson or member of the
Authority or Appellate Tribunal, as the case may be.
33. Salary and allowances payable and other terms and conditions of service of the
officers and other employees of the Appellate Tribunal.- (1) The conditions of service
of the officers and employees of the Appellate Tribunal and any other category of
employees in the matter of pay, allowances, leave, joining time, joining time pay, age of
superannuation and other conditions of service, shall be regulated in accordance with
such rules and regulations as are, from time to time, applicable to officers and employees
of the Government and drawing the corresponding scales of pay.
(2) The Government shall have power to relax the provisions of any of these rules in
respect of any class or category of officers or employees or consultants and experts, as
the case may be.
34. Additional powers of the Appellate Tribunal.- The Appellate Tribunal may call
upon such experts or consultants from the fields of economics, commerce, accountancy,
real estate, town planning, competition, construction, architecture or engineering or from
any other discipline as it deems necessary, to assist the Appellate Tribunal in the conduct
of any inquiry or proceedings before it.
35. Administrative powers of the Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal.- The
administrative powers of the Chairperson of the Appellate Tribunal will be with regard to
the following:(a) matters pertaining to human resources, wages and salaries structures,
emoluments, perquisites and personnel policies;
(b) matters pertaining to appointments, promotions and confirmation for all
posts;
(c) acceptance of resignations by any officer or employee;
(d) In addition, the Chairperson will be responsible for officiating against
sanctioned posts;
(e) authorization of tours to be undertaken by any Member, officer or
employee within India and allowance to be granted for the same;
(f) all matters in relation to grant or rejection of leaves.
(g) permission for hiring of vehicles for official use;

21

(h) nominations for attending seminars, conferences and training courses in
India;
(i) permission for invitation of guests to carry out training course;
(j) sanction scrapping or write-off of capital assets which due to normal wear
and tear have become unserviceable or are considered beyond economical
repairs;
(k) matters relating to disciplinary action against any officer or employee;
(l) any other powers that may be required for the efficient functioning of the
Appellate Tribunal and enforcement of the provisions of the Act and these
rules.
CHAPTER VIII.
OFFENCES AND PENALTIES.
36. Terms and conditions and the fine payable for compounding of offence.- (1) The
court shall, for the purposes of compounding any offence specified under section 70 of
the Act, accept a sum of money as specified in the Table below:Offence.

Money to be paid for compounding the offence.

Imprisonment under sub section (2)
of section 59.
Imprisonment under section 64.

upto 10% of the estimated cost of the real estate
project.
upto 10% of the estimated cost of the real estate
project.
upto 10% of the estimated cost of the plot,
apartment or building, as the case may be, of the
real estate project, for which the sale or purchase
has been facilitated.
upto 10% of the estimated cost of the plot,
apartment or building, as the case may be:

Imprisonment under section 66.

Imprisonment under section 68.

Provided that the Government may, by notification, amend the rates specified in the
Table.
(2) On payment of the sum of money in accordance with the table, any person in custody
in connection with that offence shall be set at liberty and no proceedings shall be
instituted or continued against such person in any court. If the promoter is restrained,
restricted or limited by operation of law in providing specific amenities as per the plans
sanctioned, in such case, the promoter shall be absolved from all liabilities for not
providing such amenities in the real estate project.
(3) The acceptance of the sum of money for compounding an offence in accordance with
the table above, by the Court shall be deemed to an acquittal within the meaning of
section 300 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1973 (Central Act 2 of 1974).

22

(4) The promoter, allottee or real estate agent, as the case may be, shall comply with the
orders of the Authority or the Appellate Tribunal, within the period specified by the court,
which shall not be more than 30 days from the date of compounding of the offence.
37. Manner of filing a complaint with the Authority and the manner of holding an
inquiry by the Authority.- (1) Any aggrieved person may file a complaint with the
Authority for any violation under the Act or the rules and regulations made thereunder,
save as those provided to be adjudicated by the adjudicating officer, in Form „M‟ which
shall be accompanied by a fee as specified by the Authority.
(2) The Authority shall, for the purposes of deciding any complaint as specified under
sub-rule (1), follow summary procedure for inquiry in the following manner:(a)

Upon receipt of the complaint the Authority shall issue a notice along with
particulars of the alleged contravention and the relevant documents to the
respondent;
(b) The notice shall specify a date and time for further hearing;
(c) On the date so fixed, the Authority shall explain to the respondent about the
contravention alleged to have been committed in relation to any of the
provisions of the Act or the rules and regulations made thereunder and if the
respondent (i) pleads guilty, the Authority shall record the plea, and pass such orders
including imposition of penalty as it thinks fit in accordance with the
provisions of the Act or the rules and regulations, made thereunder;
(ii) does not plead guilty and contests the complaint the Authority shall
demand an explanation from the respondent;
(d) In case the Authority is satisfied on the basis of the submissions made that the
complaint does not require any further inquiry, it may dismiss the complaint;
(e) In case the Authority is satisfied on the basis of the submissions made that the
there is need for further hearing into the complaint, it may order production of
documents or other evidence on a date and time fixed by it;
(f) The Authority shall have the power to carry out an inquiry, into the complaint,
on the basis of documents and submissions;
(g) On the date so fixed, the Authority upon consideration of the evidence
produced before it and other records and submissions is satisfied that (i) the respondent is in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the rules
and regulations made there under it shall pass such orders including
imposition of penalty as it thinks fit in accordance with the provisions of
the Act or the rules and regulations made there under;
(ii) the respondent is not in contravention of the provisions of the Act or the
rules and regulations made there under the Authority may, by order in
writing, dismiss the complaint, with reasons to be recorded in writing.
(h) If any person fails neglects or refuses to appear, or present himself as
required before the Authority, the Authority shall have the power to proceed

23

with the inquiry in the absence of such person or persons after recording the
reasons for doing so.
38. Manner of filing a complaint with the adjudicating officer and the manner of
holding an inquiry by the Adjudicating officer.- (1) Any aggrieved person may file a
complaint with the adjudicating officer for compensation under section 12, 14, 18 and 19
in Form „N‟ which shall be accompanied by a fee of rupees five thousand in the form
prescribed by the Authority.
(2) The Adjudicating officer shall for the purposes of adjudging compensation follow
summary procedure for inquiry in the following manner:
(a) Upon receipt of the complaint the adjudicating officer shall issue a notice
along with particulars of the alleged contravention and the relevant documents
to the promoter;
(b) The notice shall specify a date and time for further hearing; and on the date so
fixed, the adjudicating officer shall explain to the promoter about the
contravention alleged to have been committed in relation to any of the
provisions of the Act or the rules and regulations made there under and if the
promoter(i) pleads guilty, the adjudicating officer shall record the plea, and award
such compensation as he thinks fit in accordance with the provisions of
the Act or the rules and regulations, made there under;
(ii) does not plead guilty and contests the complaint the adjudicating
officer shall demand an explanation from the promoter;
(c) In case the adjudicating officer is satisfied on the basis of the submissions
made that the complaint does not require any further inquiry it may dismiss
the complaint;
(d) In case the adjudicating officer is satisfied on the basis of the submissions
made that the there is need for further hearing into the complaint it may order
production of documents or other evidence on a date and time fixed by him;
(e) The adjudicating officer shall have the power to carry out an inquiry into the
complaint on the basis of documents and submissions;
(f) On the date so fixed, the adjudicating officer upon consideration of the
evidence produced before him and other records and submissions is satisfied
that the promoter is(i) liable to pay compensation, the adjudicating officer may, by order in
writing, order payment of such compensation, as deemed fit by the
promoter to the complainant; or
(ii) not liable to any compensation, the adjudicating officer may, by order
in writing, dismiss the complaint, with reasons to be recorded in
writing.
(g) If any person fails, neglects or refuses to appear, or present himself as required
before the adjudicating officer, the adjudicating officer shall have the power to proceed
with the inquiry in the absence of such person or persons after recording the reasons for
doing so.

24

CHAPTER IX.
BUDGET AND REPORT.
39. Budget, accounts and audit.- The Authority shall prepare a budget, maintain proper
accounts and other relevant records and prepare an annual statement of accounts as
provided in section 77 in Form „O‟.
40. Report and Returns.- The Authority shall prepare its annual report as provided in
section 78 in Form „P‟.
DHARMENDRA PRATAP YADAV
SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT

//True Copy//
Section Officer

25

FORM „A‟
[See rule 3 (2)]
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF PROJECT
To
The Real Estate Regulatory Authority
____________________
Sir,
I/We hereby apply for the grant of registration of my/our project to be set up at
_________ Taluk __________ District _________ State __________.
1.
The requisite particulars are as under:(i)
Status of the applicant, whether individual / company / proprietorship firm /
societies / partnership firm / competent authority;
(ii)
In case of individual –
(a)
Name
(b)
Father‟s Name
(c)
Occupation
(d)
Permanent address
(e)
Photograph
OR
In case of firm / societies / trust / companies / limited liability partnership /
competent authority (a)
Name
(b)
Address
(c)
Copy of registration certificate
(d)
Main objects
(e)
Name, photograph and address of chairman of the governing body /
partners / directors etc.
(iii) PAN No. _________ ;
(iv)
Name and address of the bank or banker with which account in terms of section 4
(2)(l)(D) of the Act will be maintained __________;
(v)
Details of project land held by the applicant ____________;
(vi)
Details of Approval obtained from Various Competent Authorities for
commencing the Project____________;
(vii) Brief details of the projects launched by the promoter in the last five years,
whether already completed or being developed, as the case may be, including the
current status of the said projects, any delay in its completion, details of cases
pending, details of type of land and payments pending etc.
__________________________________;
(viii) Agency to take up external development works ___________ Local Authority
(exact Authority or any agreement to the Authority) / Self Development;
(ix)
Registration fee by way of a demand draft dated ________drawn on
_____________________ bearing no. ______ for an amount of
Rs._______________/- calculated as per sub-rule (3) of rule 3;
(x) Any other information the applicant may like to furnish.
2.
I/we enclose the following documents in triplicate, namely:(i) authenticated copy of the PAN card of the promoter;
(ii) audited balance sheet of the promoter for the preceding financial year.
(iii) copy of the legal title deed reflecting the title of the promoter to the land on
which development is proposed to be developed along with legally valid
documents with authentication of such title, if such land is owned by
another person;

26

3.

(iv) the details of encumbrances on the land on which development is proposed
including any rights, title, interest or name of any party in or over such land
along with details;
(v) where the promoter is not the owner of the land on which development is
proposed details of the consent of the owner of the land along with a copy
of the collaboration agreement, development agreement, joint development
agreement or any other agreement, as the case may be, entered into
between the promoter and such owner and copies of title and other
documents reflecting the title of such owner on the land proposed to be
developed;
(A) Authenticated copy of the building permit and sanctioned plan from
the competent authority in accordance with the laws applicable for the
project, and where the project is proposed to be developed in phases, an
authenticated copy of the planning permission, building permit /
building sanction plan, partial completion certificate for each of such
phases;
(vi) the sanctioned plan, layout plan and specifications of the proposed project
or the phase thereof, and the whole project as sanctioned by the competent
authority;
(vii) the plan of development works to be executed in the proposed project and
the proposed facilities to be provided thereof including fire-fighting
facilities, drinking water facilities, solid and liquid waste management,
emergency evacuation services, use of renewable energy;
(viii) the location details of the project, with clear demarcation of land dedicated
for the project along with its boundaries including the latitude and
longitude of the end points of the project;
(ix) proforma of the allotment letter, agreement for sale, and the conveyance
deed proposed to be signed with the allottees;
(x) the number, type and the carpet area of apartments for sale in the project
exclusive of the area of balcony, verandah, open terrace and other common
areas, if any, details of which have to be furnished separately;
(xi) the number and areas of covered parking available in the project;
(xii) the number of open parking areas available in the project;
(xiii) details of undivided shares pertaining to the project;
(xiv) the names, addresses, phone numbers, email ids and registration details of
real estate agents, if any, for the proposed project;
(xv) the names, addresses, phone numbers, email ids and registration details of
the contractors, architects, structural engineers, site engineers, project
management consultants, HAVC consultants and Geo Technical Engineers,
if any and other professionals or key persons, if any associated with the
development of the proposed project;
(xvi) a declaration in FORM „B‟.
I/We solemnly affirm and declare that the particulars given in herein are correct to
my /our knowledge and belief.
Dated:
Place:
Yours faithfully,
Signature and seal of the applicant(s)

27

FORM „B‟
[See rule 3(4)]
DECLARATION, SUPPORTED BY AN AFFIDAVIT, WHICH SHALL BE SIGNED
BY THE PROMOTER OR ANY PERSON AUTHORIZED BY THE PROMOTER
Affidavit cum Declaration
Affidavit cum Declaration of Mr./Ms. _________ promoter of the proposed
project______;
I, _________ promoter of the proposed project do hereby solemnly declare,
undertake and state as under:
1. That I / promoter have / has a legal title to the land on which the development of the
project is proposed
OR
Have entered into joint development agreement /collaboration agreement
/development agreement or any other agreement with__________________ who
possess a legal title to the land on which the development of the proposed project is
to be carried out
AND
a legally valid authentication of title of such land along with an authenticated copy of
the agreement between such owner and promoter for development of the project is
enclosed herewith.
2. That the said land is free from all encumbrances.
OR
Possess such encumbrances as ________________ including details of any rights,
title, interest or name of any party in or over such land, along with details.
3. That the time period within which the project shall be completed by me/promoter is
_________.
4. That seventy per cent of the amounts realised by me/promoter for the real estate
project from the allottees, from time to time, shall be deposited in a separate account
to be maintained in a scheduled bank to cover the cost of construction and the land
cost and shall be used only for that purpose.
5. That the amounts from the separate account, to cover the cost of the project, shall be
withdrawn only after due certification by an engineer, architect and a chartered
accountant in practice that the withdrawal is in proportion to the percentage of
completion of the project.
6. That I / promoter shall get the accounts audited within six months after the end of
every financial year by a chartered accountant in practice, and shall produce a
statement of accounts duly certified and signed by such chartered accountant to the
Authority and it shall be verified during the audit that the amounts collected for a
particular project have been utilised for the project and the withdrawals have been
made in compliance with the proportion to the percentage of completion of the
project.
7. That I / promoter shall take all the pending approvals on time, from the competent
authorities.
8. That I / promoter have / has furnished such other documents as have been prescribed
by the rules and regulations made under the Act.

28

9. That I / promoter shall not discriminate against any allottee at the time of allotment
of any apartment, plot or building, as the case may be, on any grounds.
Deponent
Verification
The contents of my above Affidavit cum Declaration are true and correct and
nothing material has been concealed by me therefrom.
Verified by me at ________ on this ____ day of _______.
Deponent

29

FORM „C‟
[See rule 6(1)]
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE OF PROJECT
This registration is granted under section 5 of the Act to the following project
under project registration number _______________:
__________________________________________________________________
_________________________
(Specify Details of Project including the project address);
1. (in the case of an individual) Mr./Ms. _______________________________son of
Mr./Ms._____________________Taluk____________________District__________
___ State_____________________;
OR
(in the case of a firm / society / company / competent authority)
______________firm
/ society /
company / competent authority
__________________ having its registered office / principal place of business at
______________.
2. This registration is granted subject to the following conditions, namely:(i)

The promoter shall enter into an agreement for sale with the allottees as
provided in „Annexure A‟;

(ii)

The promoter shall execute and register a conveyance deed in favour of the
allottee or the association of the allottees, as the case may be, of the apartment
or the common areas as per section 17;

(iii) The promoter shall deposit seventy percent of the amounts realised by the
promoter in a separate account to be maintained in a schedule bank to cover
the cost of construction and the land cost to be used only for that purpose as
per sub-clause (D) of clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 4;
(iv) The registration shall be valid for a period of ______ years commencing
from_____________and ending with ________________________unless
renewed by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority in accordance with section 6
read with rule 7 of the Act;
(v)

The promoter shall comply with the provisions of the Act and the rules and
regulations made thereunder;

(vi) The promoter shall not contravene the provisions of any other law for the time
being in force in the area where the project is being developed.
3. If the above mentioned conditions are not fulfilled by the promoter, the regulatory
authority may take necessary action against the promoter including revoking the
registration granted herein, as per the Act and the rules and regulations made there
under.
Dated:
Place:
Signature and seal of the Authorized Officer
Real Estate Regulatory Authority

30

FORM „D‟
[See rule 6(2), rule 7(4); rule 8]
INTIMATION OF
REJECTION OF APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF PROJECT /
REJECTION OF APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION OF REGISTRATION OF
PROJECT / REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION OF PROJECT
From:
The Real Estate Regulatory Authority,
_______________________
_______________________
To
_______________________
_______________________
_______________________
Application/Registration No.: _______________
Dated: _______________
You are hereby informed that your application for registration of your project is rejected.
OR
You are hereby informed that your application for extension of the registration of your
project is rejected.
OR
You are hereby informed that the registration granted to your project is hereby revoked.
for the reasons set out:___________________________________________________

Place:
Dated:
Signature and seal of the Authorized Officer
Real Estate Regulatory Authority

31

FORM „E‟
[See rule 7(1)]
APPLICATION FOR EXTENSION OF REGISTRATION OF PROJECT
From:
______________________
_______________________
_______________________
To
The Real Estate Regulatory Authority,
_______________________
_______________________
_______________________
Sir,
I/We hereby apply for renewal of registration of the following project:
________________________________________________________
________________________________________________________
registered with the regulatory authority vide project registration certificate
No.________________, which expires on________.
As required I/we submit the following documents and information, namely:(i)

(ii)

bearing

A demand Draft No. _______________ dated _______________ for
rupees___________
in
favour
of
___________
drawn
on
_______________________ bank as extension fee as provided under sub-rule (2)
of rule 7;
Authenticated Plan of the project showing the stage of development works
undertaken till date;

(iii) Explanatory note regarding the state of development works in the project and
reason for not completing the development works in the project within the period
declared in the declaration submitted in Form „B‟ at the time of making
application
for
the
registration
of
the
project___________________________________;
(iv) Authenticated copy of the permission/approval from the competent authority
which is valid for a period which is longer than the proposed term of extension of
the registration sought from the regulatory authority;
(v) The original project registration certificate; and
(vi) Any other information as may be specified by regulations.
Place:
Dated:
Yours faithfully,
Signature and seal of the applicant(s)

32

FORM „F‟
[See rule 7(4)]
CERTIFICATE FOR EXTENSION OF REGISTRATION OF PROJECT
This extension of registration is granted under section 6 of the Act, to the
following project:
________________________________________________________________________
___
_________________________
________________________________________________________________________
__, registered with the regulatory authority vide project registration certificate bearing
No.___________________ of
1. (in the case of an individual) Mr./Ms. _______________________________son of
Mr./Ms.____________________________Taluk_____________District__________
______
State_____________________;
OR
(in the case of a firm / society / company / competent authority)
______________firm
/ society /
company / competent authority
__________________having its registered office/principal place of business at
______________.
2. This renewal of registration is granted subject to the following conditions, namely:(i) The promoter shall execute and register a conveyance deed in favour of the
allottee or the association of the allottees, as the case may be, of the apartment
or the common areas as per section 17;
(ii) The promoter shall deposit seventy percent of the amounts realised by the
promoter in a separate account to be maintained in a schedule bank to cover the
cost of construction and the land cost to be used only for that purpose as per
sub-clause (D) of clause (l) of sub-section (2) of section 4;
(iii) The registration shall be valid for a period of ______ years commencing from
_____________and ending with ________________________unless renewed
by the Real Estate Regulatory Authority in accordance with section 6 of the Act
read with rule 7;
(iv) The promoter shall comply with the provisions of the Act and the rules and
regulations made thereunder;
(v) The promoter shall not contravene the provisions of any other law for the time
being in force in the area where the project is being developed;
(vi) If the above mentioned conditions are not fulfilled by the promoter, the
regulatory authority may take necessary action against the promoter including
revoking the registration granted herein, as per the Act and the rules and
regulations made thereunder.
Dated:
Place:
Signature and seal of the Authorized Officer
Real Estate Regulatory Authority

33

FORM „G‟
[See rule 11(1)]
APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE AGENT
To
The Real Estate Regulatory Authority
____________________
____________________
Sir,
I/We apply for the grant of registration as a real estate agent to facilitate the sale or
purchase of any plot, apartment or building, as the case may be, in real estate projects
registered in the _________State of Tamil Nadu in terms of the Act and the rules and
regulations made thereunder,
1. (in the case of an individual) Mr./Ms. _______________________________son of
Mr./Ms.____________________________Taluk_____________District__________
___State_____________________;
OR
(in the case of a firm / society / company) ______________firm / society /
company__________________having its registered office / principal place of
business at ______________.
2. The requisite particulars are as under:(i) Status of the applicant, whether individual / company / proprietorship firm /
societies / partnership firm / limited liability partnership;
(ii) In case of individual –
(a) Name(b) Father‟s Name(c) Occupation(d)
Permanent address(e) PhotographOR
In case of firm / societies / companies (a) Name
(b) Address
(c) Copy of registration certificate
(d) Major activities
(e) Name, photograph and address of partners / directors etc.
(iii) particulars of registration including the bye-laws, memorandum of association,
articles of association etc. as the case may be;
(iv) authenticated copy of the address proof of the place of business;
(v) Details of registration in any other State or Union territory;
(vi) Any other information the applicant may like to furnish.
3. I/we enclose the following documents, namely:(i) Demand Draft No. ____________ dated _____________ for a sum of
Rs.____________, in favour of __________, drawn on ____________ bank as
registration fee as per sub-rule (2) of rule 11;

34

(ii) authenticated copy of the registration as a real estate agent in any other State or
Union territory, if applicable;
4. I/we solemnly affirm and declare that the particulars given herein are correct to my/
our knowledge and belief.

Dated:
Place:

Yours faithfully,
Signature and seal of the applicant(s)

35

1.

2.

3.

4.

FORM „H‟
[See rule 12(1)]
REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE OF REAL ESTATE AGENT
This registration is granted under section 9 of the Act with registration certificate
bearing No. _______ to (in the case of an individual) Mr./Ms. _______________________________son of
Mr./Ms.____________________________Taluk____________District___________
______ State_____________________;
OR
(in the case of a firm / society / company) ______________ firm / society /
company__________________ having its registered office / principal place of
business at ______________.
to act as a real estate agent to facilitate the sale or purchase of any plot, apartment or
building, as the case may be, in real estate projects registered in the _________State
of Tamil Nadu in terms of the Act and the rules and regulations made thereunder,
This registration is granted subject to the following conditions, namely:(i) The real estate agent shall not facilitate the sale or purchase of any plot,
apartment or building, as the case may be, in a real estate project or part of it,
being sold by the promoter which is required but not registered with the
regulatory authority;
(ii) The real estate agent shall maintain and preserve such books of account,
records and documents as provided under rule 15;
(iii) The real estate agent shall not involve himself in any unfair trade practices as
specified under clause (c) of section 10 of the Act;
(iv) The real estate agent shall provide assistance to enable the allottee and promoter
to exercise their respective rights and fulfil their respective obligations at the
time of booking and sale of any plot, apartment or building, as the case may be;
(v) The real estate agent shall comply with the provisions of the Act and the rules
and regulations made thereunder;
(vi) The real estate agent shall not contravene the provisions of any other law for
the time being in force in the area where the project is being developed;
(vii) The real estate agent shall discharge such other functions as may be specified
by the regulatory authority by regulations;
The registration is valid for a period of five years commencing from _____________
and ending with________________________ unless renewed by the regulatory
authority in accordance with the provisions of the Act or the rules and regulations
made thereunder.
If the above mentioned conditions are not fulfilled by the real estate agent, the
regulatory authority may take necessary action against the real estate agent including
revoking the registration granted herein, as per the Act and the rules and regulations
made thereunder.

Dated:
Place:
Signature and seal of the Authorized Officer
Real Estate Regulatory Authority

36

FORM „I‟
[See rule 12(2), 13(4), 14]
INTIMATION OF
REJECTION OF APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE
AGENT / REJECTION OF APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION
OF REAL ESTATE AGENT / REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION OF REAL
ESTATE AGENT
From:
The Real Estate Regulatory Authority,
_______________________
_______________________
To
_______________________
_______________________
_______________________
Application / Registration No.: _______________________
Dated
: _______________________
You are hereby informed that your application for registration as real estate agent is
rejected.
OR
You are hereby informed that your application for the renewal of the registration as real
estate agent is rejected.
OR
You are hereby informed that the registration granted to you as real estate agent is hereby
revoked.
for the reasons set out:___________________________________________________
Place:
Dated:
Signature and seal of the Authorized Officer
Real Estate Regulatory Authority

37

FORM „J‟
[See rule 13(1)]
APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE AGENT
From:
_______________________
_______________________
To
The Real Estate Regulatory Authority,
_______________________
_______________________
_______________________
Sir,
I/we beg to apply for renewal of my/our registration as a real estate agent under
registration
certificate
bearing
No.
_______,
which
expires
on___________________________.
As required I/we submit the following documents and information, namely:(i) A demand draft no._______________ dated _______________ for
rupees___________
in
favour
of
___________drawn
on_______________________
bank as renewal fee;
(ii) The original registration certificate; and
(iii) Status of the applicant, whether individual / company / proprietorship firm /
societies / partnership firm / limited liability partnership;
(iv) In case of individual –
(a) Name
(b) Father‟s Name
(c) Occupation
(d) Permanent address
(e) Photograph
OR
In case of firm / societies / companies (a) Name
(b) Address
(c) Copy of registration certificate
(d) Major activities
(e) Name, photograph and address of partners / directors
(v) particulars of registration including the bye-laws, memorandum of association,
articles of association etc. as the case may be;
(vi) authenticated copy of the address proof of the place of business;
(vii) Details of registration in any other State or Union territory;
(viii) Any other information as specified by regulations.
Dated:
Place:
Yours faithfully,
Signature and seal of the applicant(s)

38

FORM „K‟
[See rule 13 (4)]
RENEWAL OF REGISTRATION OF REAL ESTATE AGENT
1. This renewal of registration is granted under section 9 of the Act to
(in the case of an individual) Mr./Ms. _______________________________son of
Mr./Ms.____________________________Taluk_____________District___________
___
___State_____________________;
OR
(in the case of a firm / society / company) ______________firm / society / company
__________________having
its
registered
office /
principal
place of business
at ______________.
in continuation of registration certificate
____________.

bearing No.________________, of

2. This renewal of registration is granted subject to the following conditions, namely:(i) The real estate agent shall not facilitate the sale or purchase of any plot,
apartment or building, as the case may be, in a real estate project or part of it,
being sold by the promoter which is required but not registered with the
regulatory authority;
(ii) The real estate agent shall maintain and preserve such books of account,
records and documents as provided under rule 15;
(iii) The real estate agent shall not involve himself in any unfair trade practices as
specified under clause (c) of section 10 of the Act;
(iv) The real estate agent shall facilitate the possession of all documents, as the
allottee is entitled to, at the time of booking of any plot, apartment or building,
as the case may be;
(v) The real estate agent shall provide assistance to enable the allottee and
promoter to exercise their respective rights and fulfil their respective
obligations at the time of booking and sale of any plot, apartment or building,
as the case may be;
(vi) The real estate agent shall comply with the provisions of the Act and the rules
and regulations made thereunder;
(vii) The real estate agent shall not contravene the provisions of any other law for
the time being in force in the area where the project is being developed;
(viii) The real estate agent shall discharge such other functions as may be specified
by the regulatory authority by regulations;
3. The registration is valid for a period of five years commencing from _____________
and ending with________________________ unless renewed by the regulatory
authority in accordance with the provisions of the Act or the rules and regulations
made thereunder;
4. If the above mentioned conditions are not fulfilled by the real estate agent, the
regulatory authority may take necessary action against the real estate agent including
revoking the registration granted herein, as per the Act and the rules and regulations
made thereunder.
Dated:
Place:
Signature and seal of the Authorized Officer
Real Estate Regulatory Authority

39

FORM „L‟
[See rule 29(2)]
APPEAL TO APPELLATE TRIBUNAL
Appeal under section 44 of the Act
Every appeal shall be filed in English and in case it is in some other Indian
language, it shall be accompanied by a copy translated in English and shall be
fairly and legibly type-written, lithographed or printed in double spacing on one
side of standard petition paper with an inner margin of about four centimetres
width on top and with a right margin on 2.5 cm, and left margin of 5 cm, duly
paginated, indexed and stitched together in paper book form.
For use of Appellate Tribunal's office:

1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

Date of filing : ______________________
Date of receipt by post: ______________________
Registration No.: ______________________
Signature: ________________________
Registrar: ________________________
IN THE REAL ESTATE APPELLATE TRIBUNAL (Name of place)
Between
______________________ Appellant(s)
And
______________________ Respondent(s)
Details of appeal:
Particulars of the appellants:
(i) Name of the appellant:
(ii) Address of the existing office / residence of the appellant:
(iii) Address for service of all notices:
Particulars of the respondents:
(i) Name(s) of respondent:
(ii) Office address of the respondent:
(iii) Address for service of all notices:
Jurisdiction of the Appellate Tribunal:
The appellant declares that the subject matter of the appeal falls within the
jurisdiction of the Appellate Tribunal.
Limitation:
The appellant declares that the appeal is within the limitation specified in sub-section
(2) of section 44
OR
If the appeal is filed after the expiry of the limitation period specified under
subsection (2) of section 44 specify reasons for delay
_____________________________________
Facts of the case:
(give a concise statement of facts and grounds of appeal against the specific order of
regulatory authority or the adjudicating officer, as the case may be passed under
section(s) ___________________ of the Act.
Relief(s) sought:
In view of the facts mentioned in paragraph 5 above, the appellant prays for the
following relief(s) _____________________________________________
[Specify below the relief(s) sought explaining the grounds of relief(s) and the legal
provisions (if any) relied upon]

40

7. Interim order, if prayed for:
Pending final decision on the appeal the appellant seeks issue of the following
interim order:
[Give here the nature of the interim order prayed for with reasons]
8. Matter not pending with any other court, etc.:
The appellant further declares that the matter regarding which this appeal has been
made is not pending before any court of law or any other authority or any other
tribunal(s).
9. Particulars of bank draft in respect of the fee in terms of sub-rule (1) of rule 29:
(i) Amount
(ii) Name of the bank on which drawn
(iii) Demand draft number
10. List of enclosures:
(i) An attested true copy of the order against which the appeal is filed
(ii) Copies of the documents relied upon by the appellant and referred to in the
appeal
(iii) An index of the documents
Verification
I__________ (name in full block letters) son / daughter of ______ the appellant
do hereby verify that the contents of paragraphs [1 to 10] are true to my personal
knowledge and belief and that I have not suppressed any material fact(s).
Place:
Date:
Signature of the appellant(s)

41

FORM „M‟
[See rule 37(1)]
COMPLAINT TO REGULATORY AUTHORITY
Complaint under section 31 of the Act
For use of Regulatory Authority(s) office:
Date of filing: ______________________
Date of receipt by post: ______________________
Complaint No.: ______________________
Signature: ________________________
Registrar: ________________________
IN THE REGULATORY AUTHORITIES OFFICE (Name of place)
Between
______________________ Complainant(s)
And
_____________________
Respondent(s)

Details

of

claim:
1. Particulars of the complainant(s):
(i) Name of the complainant:
(ii) Address of the existing office / residence of the complainant:
(iii) Address for service of all notices:
2. Particulars of the respondents:
(i) Name(s) of respondent:
(ii) Office address of the respondent:
(iii) Address for service of all notices:
3. Jurisdiction of the regulatory authority:
The complainant declares that the subject matter of the claim falls within the
jurisdiction of the regulatory authority.
4. Facts of the case:
[give a concise statement of facts and grounds for complaint]
5. Relief(s) sought:
In view of the facts mentioned in paragraph 4 above, the complainant prays for the
following relief(s) _________________________________________
[Specify below the relief(s) claimed explaining the grounds of relief(s) and the legal
provisions (if any) relied upon]
6. Interim order, if prayed for:
Pending final decision on the complaint the complainant seeks issue of the following
interim order:
[Give here the nature of the interim order prayed for with reasons]
7. Complain not pending with any other court, etc.:
The complainant further declares that the matter regarding which this complaint has
been made is not pending before any court of law or any other authority or any other
tribunal(s).
8. Particulars of bank draft in respect of the fee in terms of sub-rule (1) of rule 37:
(i) Amount
(ii) Name of the bank on which drawn

42

(iii) Demand draft number
9. List of enclosures:
[Specify the details of enclosures with the complaint]
Verification
I__________ (name in full block letters) son / daughter of ______ the
complainant do hereby verify that the contents of paragraphs [1 to 9] are true to
my personal knowledge and belief and that I have not suppressed any material
fact(s).
Place:
Date:
Signature of the complainant(s)

43

FORM „N‟
[See rule 38(1)]
APPLICATION TO ADJUDICATING OFFICER
Claim for compensation under section 31 read with section 71 of the Act.
For use of Adjudicating Officers office:
Date of filing: ______________________
Date of receipt by post: ______________________
Application No.: ______________________
Signature: ________________________
Authorized Officer: ________________________
IN THE ADJUDICATING OFFICERS OFFICE (Name of place)
Between
______________________ appellant(s)
And
______________________
Respondent(s) Details of claim:
1. Particulars of the appellant(s)
(i) Name of the appellant:
(ii) Address of the existing office / residence of the appellant:
(iii) Address for service of all notices:
(iv) Details of allottees apartment, plot or building
2. Particulars of the respondents:
(i) Name(s) of respondent:
(ii) Office address of the respondent:
(iii) Address for service of all notices:
(iv) Registration no. and address of project:
3. Jurisdiction of the Adjudicating Officer:
The appellant declares that the subject matter of the claim falls within the jurisdiction
of the adjudicating officer.
4. Facts of the case:
[give a concise statement of facts and grounds of claim against the promoter]
5. Compensation(s) sought:
In view of the facts mentioned in paragraph 4 above, the appellant prays for the
following compensation(s) ______________________________
[Specify below the compensation(s) claimed explaining the grounds of claim(s) and
the legal provisions (if any) relied upon]
6. Claim not pending with any other court, etc.:
The applicant further declares that the matter regarding which this appeal has been
made is not pending before any court of law or any other authority or any other
tribunal(s).
7. Particulars of bank draft in respect of the fee in terms of sub-rule (1) of rule 37:
(i) Amount
(ii) Name of the bank on which drawn
(iii) Demand draft number

44

8. List of enclosures:
[Specify the details of enclosures with the application]
Verification
I__________ (name in full block letters) son / daughter of ______ the appellant
do hereby verify that the contents of paragraphs [1 to 8] are true to my personal
knowledge and belief and that I have not suppressed any material fact(s).
Place:
Date:
Signature of the appellant (s)

45

FORM „O‟
[See rule 39]
ANNUAL STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS
Receipts and Payments Account
For the year ended _______________________
(In Rupee)
Payments
Current
year
Previous
year

A/c
Code

Previous
Year

Receipts
Current
year

A/c
Code

As
on As on

As on As on
1.

To Balance Brought
down:
To Bank
To Cash in hand
To Fee, Charges and
Fine:

13.
13.1.
13.2.

By Chairpersonand
Members:
By Pay and Allowances
By Other benefits

13.3.

By Travelling expenses:

To Fees
To Charges
To Fines
To Others (specify)
To Grants:
To Accounts with
Government
To Others (specify)
To Gifts
To Seminars and
Conferences
To Sale of
Publications
To Income on
investments and
Deposits :
To Income on
investments
To Income on
Deposits

13.3.1
13.3.2
14.
14.1.
14.2.

By Overseas
By Domestic
By Officers:
By Pay and Allowances
By Retirement benefits

14.3.
14.4.
14.4.1

By Other benefits
By Travelling expenses:
By Overseas

14.4.2

By Domestic

15.

By Staff:

15.1.

By Pay and Allowances

15.2.
15.3.

By Retirement benefits
By Other benefits

8.

To Loans:

15.4.

By Travelling expenses:

8.1.
8.2.
9.

To Government
To Others (specify)
To Sale of Assets
To Sale on
Investments
To Recoveries from

15.4.1.
15.4. 2
16.

By Overseas
By Domestic
By Hire of Conveyance

17.
18.

By Wages
By Overtime

1.1.
1.2.
2.
2.1.
2.2.
2.3.
2.4.
3.
3.1.
3.2.
4.
5.
6.
7.
7.1.
7.2.

10.
11.

46

pay bills

11.1
11.2
11.3
51

To Loans and
Advances Principal
Amount
To Interest on Loans
and Advances
To Miscellaneous
To others (specify)

19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
31.1
31.2
32.
33.
33.1
33.1.1.
33.1.2.
33.2.
33.3.
34.
35.
35.1.
35.2.
35.3.
35.4.
36.
36.1
36.2

Total
Member(s) (Signature)
Secretary (Signature)
Officer In-charge(Finance and
Accounts)

By Honorarium
By Other office expenses
By Expenditure on Research
By Consultation expenses
By Seminars and
conferences
By Publications of Authority
By Rent and Taxes
By Interest on Loans
By Promotional Expenses
By Membership fee
By Subscription
By Purchase
of Fixed
Assets (specify)
By
Investments
and
Deposits
By Investments
By Deposits
By Security Deposits
By Loans and Advances to:
By Employees:
By Bearing Interest
By Not bearing Interest
By Suppliers/contractors
By others (specify)
By Repayment of loan
By Others
By Leave Salary and
Pension
Contribution
By Audit Fee
By Misc:
By Balance carried down:
By Bank
By Cash in hand
Total
Chairperson (Signature)

47

Income and Expenditure Account
For the 1st April _______________to 31st March______________________
(In Rupee)
A/c Expenditure
Code

13

Current
Year
As on

Previous A/c Income
Year Code

Current
Year

Previous
Year As

As on

As on

on

To Chairperson and
Members
13.1
To Pay and Allowances
13.2
To Other benefits
13.3
To Travelling Expenses
13.3.1. To Overseas
13.3.2 To Domestic

2

14
14.1

To Officers
To Pay and Allowances

3.1
3.2

14.2
14.3

To retirement Benefits
To Other Benefits

4
5

14.4

To Traveling Expenses

6

2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
3

By Income on
investments and
Deposits
By Income on
7.1 Investments
By Income on
7.2 Deposits
By Interest on
11.2 Loan and Advances
By Miscellaneous
12
Income
By Gain on Sales
12.1 of Assets
By Excess of
expenditure over
income
(Transferred to
Capital Fund
Account)
7

14.4.1 To Overseas
14.4.2 To Domestic
15

To Staff

15.1

To Pay and Allowances

15.2

To Retirement Benefits

15.3

To Other Benefits

15.4

To Traveling expenses

15.4.1

To Overseas

15.4.2
16
17
18
19

To Domestic
To hire of Conveyance
To Wages
To Overtime
To Honorarium

By Fee, Charges
and Fine
By Fee
By Charges
By Fines
By Others (specify)
By Grants
By Account with
Government
By Others
(Specify)
By Gifts
By Seminars and
Conferences
By Sale of
Publications

48

20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
35
35.1
35.2
35.3
35.4
37
48
49
50

To Other office
expenses
To expenditure on
Research
To Consultation
expenses
To Seminars and
conferences
To Publications of Real
Estate Regulatory
Authority
To Rent and Taxes
To Interest on loans
To Promotional
Expenses
To membership fee
To Subscription
To Others
To Leave Salary and
Pension
Contribution
To Audit Fee
To Misc.
To Depreciation
To Loss on sale of assets
To Bad Debts written
off
To Provision for bad &
doubtful debts
To Excess of income
over Expenditure
(Transferred to capital
Fund Account)
Total

Member(s) (Signature)
Secretary (Signature)
Officer In-Charge ( Finance and
Accounts)

Total

Chairperson (Signature)

49

Balance Sheet as on 31st (Month)(Year)--------------------(In Rupees)
A/c
Code

Liabilities

Previous
Current
Year
Year As on
As on

A/c
Code

40

Funds

43

40.1

Capital Fund

43.1

.

Add Excess of
Income over
Expenditure/
Less excess of
Expenditure
over Income

40.2
.

Other Funds
(Specify)

41

Reserves

44

8
8.1
8.2

Loans
Government
Others
Current
Liabilities
and provisions

31
31.1
31.2

42

Previous
Year
As on

Fixed Assets
Gross Block
at Cost

Less
Cumulative
depreciation
42.2

33

3.1
45
36
46
Total
Accounting Policies
and Notes to
Member(s) (Signature)
Secretary (Signature)
Officer In-Charge ( Finance and Accounts)

Current
Year
As on

Assets

Net Block
Capital Workin-progress
Investments &
Deposits
Investment
Deposits
Loans and
Advances
Account with
Government
Sundry
Debtors
Cash and
Bank
Balances
Other Current
Assets
Total

Chairperson (Signature)

50

FORM „P‟
[See rule 40]
ANNUAL REPORT TO BE PREPARED BY REGULATORY AUTHORITY
I.

Return on registration of promoters and real estate agents
A. In relation to Promoters:

Serial
Number

Name of
promoter

Address of
promoter

1

2

3

Date of issue of
Registration

Date of which
registration expires

7

8

Description
of project for
which
registration
has been
issued
4

Fee paid

Date of extension
of registration with
period of extension
9

Registration
Number

5

6

Remarks

10

B. In relation to Real Estate Agents:
Serial Name
Number of Real
Estate
Agent
1

2

Address
of Real
Estate
Agent

Registration
Fee paid

3

4

Date of
Date on
Date and
issue of
which
period of
registration registration renewal of
certificate certificate registration
expires
certificate
5
6
7

Remark

8

II. Return on number of cases filed before the regulatory authority and the adjudicating
officer for settlement of disputes and adjudicated upon.

Serial Number of Cases pending
No.
in
the last quarter by the
regulatory authority

Serial
No.

No. of Cases pending in
the last quarter with the
adjudicating officer

Number of Cases received during
the quarter by the regulatory Number of Cases disposed
of
authority
by the regulatory
Authority

No. of Cases received during
the quarter by the adjudicating
officer

No. of Cases disposed
of by the adjudicating
officer

51

III. Statement on the periodical survey conducted by the regulatory authority to monitor
the compliance of the provisions of the Act by the promoters, allottees and real estate
agents.
Serial.
No.

Survey conducted during
the quarter with details

Observation of Authority

Remedial steps taken

IV. Statement on steps taken to mitigate any non-compliance of the provisions of the
and the rules and regulations made thereunder by the promoters, allottees and real estate
agents
Serial No.

V.

Subject

Steps taken

Results achieved

Statements on penalty imposed by the regulatory authority for contraventions of the Act
and directions of the regulatory authority and adjudicating officer.
SI. No.

Name of the
promoter

Details of the
directions issued

Penalty imposed Whether paid

52

ANNEXURE ‘A’
AGREEMENT FOR SALE
[See rule 9]
This Agreement for sale (“AGREEMENT”) entered into at [ ] on [ ]
BY AND BETWEEN
[If the promoter is a company] M/s.[ ] (CIN no.
), a company incorporated under the
provisions of the Companies Act, [1956 or 2013, as the case may be, having its registered
office at [ ] and its corporate office at [ ](PAN ), represented by its authorized
signatory [ ] (Aadhar no.
) authorized VIDE board resolution dated [ ] hereinafter
referred to as the “Promoter” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or
meaning thereof be deemed to mean and include its successor-in-interest, executors,
administrators and permitted assignees);
[OR]
[If the promoter is a Partnership firm], [ ]a partnership firm registered under the Indian
Partnership Act,1932, having its principal place of business at [ ], (PAN), represented by
its authorized Partner [ ],(Aadhar no. ) authorized VIDE [ ], hereinafter referred to as the
“Promoter” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be
deemed to mean and include its successors-in-interest, executors, administrators and
permitted assignees, including those of the respective partners).
[OR]
[If the promoter is an Individual] Mr. / Ms.[ ] , (Aadhar no. ) son /daughter of [ ], aged
about [ ] , residing at [ ], (PAN
), hereinafter called the “Promoter” (which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to mean
and include his/her heirs, executors, administrators, successors-in- interest and permitted
assignees).
AND
[If the Allottee is a company] M/s. [ ], (CIN no.
) a company incorporated under the
provisions of the Companies Act, 1956 or 2013, as the case may be, having its registered
office at [ ], (PAN
), represented by its authorized signatory, [ ], (Aadhar no. ) duly
authorized VIDE board resolution dated [ ], hereinafter referred to as the “Allottee” (which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to mean
and include its successor-in-interest, executors, administrators and permitted assignees).
[OR]
[If the Allottee is a Partnership] [ ], a partnership firm registered under the Indian

53

Partnership Act, 1932,having its principal place of business at [ ], (PAN),represented by
its authorized partner, [ ], (Aadhar no.
)authorized VIDE [ ], hereinafter referred to
as the “Allottee”(which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning
thereof be deemed to mean and include its successors-in-interest, executors,
administrators and permitted assignees, including those of the respective partners).
[OR]
[If the Allottee is an Individual]Mr. / Ms.[ ], (Aadhar no. ) son / daughter of [ ], aged
about [ ], residing at [ ], (PAN
), hereinafter called the “Allottee” (which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to mean
and include his/her heirs, executors, administrators, successors-in-interest and permitted
assignees).
[OR]
[If the Allottee is a HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY, Mr. [ ], (Aadhar no. ) son of [ ]
aged about [ ] for self and as the Karta of the Hindu Joint Mitakshara Family known as [ ]
HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY, having its place of business / residence at [ ], (PAN ),
hereinafter referred to as the “Allottee” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the
context or meaning thereof be deemed to include his heirs, representatives, executors,
administrators, successors-in-interest and permitted assigns as well as the members of the
said HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY, their heirs, executors, administrators, successorsin-interest and permitted assignees).
[Please insert details of other Allottee(s), in case of more than one Allottee]
The Promoter and the Allottee shall hereinafter be either collectively referred to as
“Parties” and/ or individually as “Party”.
WHEREAS
A. The Promoter is the absolute and lawful owner of lands admeasuring [ ] square

meters comprised in Survey Nos.[ ] situated at [ ] Village, [ ] Taluk, [ ] District,
morefully described in Schedule A hereunder (“Said Land”) VIDE sale deed(s) dated
registered as documents no.[ ] at the office of the Sub-Registrar; and
[OR]
[ ](“Owner”) is/are the absolute and lawful owner of lands admeasuring [ ] square
meters comprised in S.Nos.[ ] situated at [ ] Village, [ ] Taluk, [ ] District
(“Said
Land”) VIDE sale deed(s) dated registered as documents no. at the office of the
Sub-Registrar. The Owner and the Promoter have entered into a
[collaboration/development/joint development] agreement dated [ ]; and
B. [If the Project is to develop commercial/residential complex] The Promoter has

formulated a scheme for developing the Said Land. The Said Land is earmarked for
the purpose of building a [commercial/residential/any other purpose] project

54

comprising of [ ] Towers having [ ] Blocks with [ ] Floors having [ ] with amenities
and facilities (“Project”); and
Or
[If the Project is plotted development] The Promoter has formulated a scheme for
developing the Said Land into plotted development comprising of
residential/commercial plots (“Project”); and
C. [If the Project is to develop commercial/residential complex] The Promoter has

obtained requisite sanctions, authorizations, consents, no objections, permissions and
approvals from the appropriate authorities for construction and development of the
Project vide Planning Permit No.[ ] dated [ ] issued by [ ]and Building Permit No.[ ]
dated [ ] issued by [ ]; and
or
[If the Project is plotted development] The Promoter has obtained requisite sanctions,
authorizations, consents, no objections, permissions and approvals from the
appropriate authorities for plotted development vide lay-out approval vide Permit
No.[ ] dated [ ] issued by [ ]; and
D. The Promoter has registered the Project under the provisions of the Act with the

Real Estate Regulatory Authority at [ ] on [ ] under registration No [ ]; and
E. The Allottee has already scrutinized / verified all sanctions, authorizations, consents,
no objections, permissions and approvals issued by the appropriate authorities and is
satisfied with the title and statutory compliance with regards to the Project; and
F. [If the Project is to develop commercial/residential complex] The Allottee desirous of
owning an apartment in the Project has offered to purchase [ ] square feet of
undivided share in the Said Land, which is more fully described in Schedule B
hereunder and engage the Promoter to construct an apartment as per the scheme
formulated by the Promoter; and
or
[If the Project is plotted development] The Allottee desirous of purchasing a Plot in
the Project has offered to purchase a plot admeasuring [ ] square feet, which is more
fully described in Schedule B hereunder; and
G. The Promoter has agreed to transfer the Schedule B property in favour of the Allottee

subject to the terms recorded hereunder; and
H. The Promoter is fully competent to enter into this Agreement and all the legal
formalities with respect to the right, title and interest of the Promoter regarding the
Said Land on which Project is to be developed have been completed; and
I. The Parties have decided to reduce the terms and conditions mutually agreed upon
into writing through these presents.

55

NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH AS FOLLOWS:
The Promoter and the Allottee mutually agree and covenant as follows:1. The Promoter agree to transfer and convey Schedule B hereunder in favour of the
Allottee for a sum of Rs.[ ] (Rupees [ ] Only) („Consideration‟) to be paid by the
Allottee as per the schedule of payment mentioned in Schedule C hereunder.
2. [If any subsisting charge on the Schedule A property] The Promoter represent that
there is an existing charge created over the Schedule A property with the [financial
institute/bank] for availing project finance. However, the Promoter shall release the
Schedule B property from the charge created and obtain suitable „Release & No
objection certificate‟ from the respective banks/financial institution and hand over the
same to the Allottee within [ ] days from execution of this Agreement.
3. [Save as mentioned in clause 2 supra], the Promoter doth hereby covenant with the
Allottee that the property agreed to be conveyed and transferred by the Promoter to
the Allottee is free from all encumbrances and defects in title and that the Promoter
have full and absolute power to convey and transfer Schedule B property.
4. [If the Project is to develop commercial/residential complex] The right of the Allottee
to purchase the Schedule B property shall be subject to the Allottee engaging the
Promoter for construction of his/her apartment through the Promoter by entering into
a Construction Agreement in accordance with the scheme of development formulated
by the Promoter.
5. [If the Project is to develop commercial/residential complex] The Allottee agrees that
the execution of the Construction Agreement with Promoter and timely payment of
installments as per the payment schedule in the respective agreements executed under
the scheme of development shall be condition precedent for purchase of the Schedule
B property.
6. The Allottee without the prior written consent of Promoter shall not have the right in
any way to assign or transfer the interest under this Agreement at any time before
registration of sale deed for the Schedule 'B' property.
7. That the Promoter hereby further covenant with the Allottee that the Promoter shall
not encumber, create a charge over or otherwise deal with the property described in
the Schedule 'B' hereunder or any part thereof in a manner contrary to the terms of
this Agreement. The Promoter hereto shall not enter into any agreement in respect of
the property described in Schedule 'B' hereunder with any other person/s during the
subsistence of this agreement.
8. That all payments to be paid under this Agreement by the Allottee to the Promoter,
apart from the loan amount, shall be paid directly by the Allottee to the Promoter.
Any loan amounts availed by the Allottee, shall be directly disbursed / released by the
bank / financial institution to the Promoter and the same shall be treated as payments
made on behalf of the Allottee. Notwithstanding whether the loan is obtained or not,
the Allottee shall be liable to pay to the Promoter on the due dates the relevant
installments and all other sums due under this Agreement and in the event, if there is
any delay and or default is made in payment of such amounts, the Allottee shall be
liable for the consequences including payment of delayed payment charges on the
outstanding payment as provided in this agreement.

56

9. The Allottee hereby agrees that the assignment of the Allottee‟s right under this
agreement to any third party is subject to the prior written permission of the Promoter
and further agrees to pay to the Promoter in an Assignment fee of [ ]% of Total Price
(„Assignment Fee‟)
10. The Parties hereto agree and confirm that the execution and registration of the Sale
Deed envisaged for conveyance of the Schedule B property to the Allottee shall be
completed only on receipt of all monies due from the Allottee to the Promoter under
this Agreement as well as other agreements, if any, executed between the Parties
under the scheme of development.
11. Provided always it is hereby expressly agreed to by and between the Parties hereto
that all agreements entered into between the Parties pursuant to the scheme of
development are separate and distinct but default in one shall be construed as default
in the other and the rights and obligations of the Parties shall be determined
accordingly. Further the Parties agree and confirm that this agreement shall stand
automatically terminated in the event of termination of any one of the agreements
entered into between the Parties under the scheme of development.
12. The Allottee shall come forward for registration of this Agreement, at the request of
the Promoter and all stamp duty, registration charges, legal expenses and all other
miscellaneous and incidental expenses for registration of this Agreement and the sale
deed in future, including additional stamp duty, if any, registration fee or any other
charges that may be demanded by the appropriate authority present and future shall be
borne to by the Allottee.
13. In the event of the Allottee failing to pay the aforesaid sums, in the manner provided
in Schedule C or cancel/withdraw from the Project except for the default of the
Promoter, then the Promoter at their discretion after due notice of 15 days to the
Allottee is entitled to cancel this Agreement and re-allot Schedule B property to
another party and the Allottee shall thereafter have no right, interest or claim over the
Schedule B property. Consequent to such termination, subject to deduction of the
booking amount, the Promoter shall refund the monies collected from the Allottee
within 45 days of such cancellation without interest, simultaneous to the Allottee
executing necessary cancellation and registration of the Agreement and/or sale deed
by the Allottee.
14. [If the Project is to develop commercial/residential complex] The Parties hereby
confirm that this Agreement and the Construction Agreement of even date entered
into by the Allottee shall co-exist or co-terminate.
15. That the Promoter shall pay land taxes (if applicable), levies, rents, public charges and
other payable in respect of the property described in Schedule 'B' hereunder unto the
date of Registration of the sale deed or delivery of possession of the plot/apartment to
the Allottee, whichever is earlier. The Allottee shall be liable to pay the said taxes,
rates, levies, etc., from the date of registration of Sale Deed or delivery of possession
of the plot/apartment to the Allottee, whichever is earlier.
16. Both Parties agree that they shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the other such
instruments and take such other actions, in additions to the instruments and actions
specifically provided for herein, as may be reasonably required in order to effectuate
the provisions of this Agreement or of any transaction contemplated herein or to

57

confirm or perfect any right to be created or transferred hereunder or pursuant to any
such transaction.
17. That all notices to be served on the Allottee and the Promoter as contemplated by this
Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly served if sent to the Allottee or the
Promoter by Registered Post/ e-mail/ courier at their respective addresses specified
below:
_____________ (Name of Allottee)
_____________ (Allottee Address)
M/s
(Promoter name)
____________ (Promoter Address)
It shall be the duty of the Allottee and the promoter to inform each other of any
change in address subsequent to the execution of this Agreement in the above address
by Registered Post failing which all communications and letters posted at the above
address shall be deemed to have been received by the promoter or the Allottee, as the
case may be.
18. That in case there are joint Allottees, all communications shall be sent by the
Promoter to the Allottee whose name appears first and at the address given by him/her
which shall for all intents and purposes to consider as properly served on all the
Allottees.
19. The Promoter may, at its sole option and discretion, without prejudice to its rights as
set out in this Agreement, waive the breach by the Allottee is in not making payments
as per the Payment Plan including waiving the payment of interest for delayed
payment. It is made clear and so agreed by the Allottee that exercise of discretion by
the Promoter in the case of one Allottee shall not be construed to be a precedent and
/or binding on the Promoter to exercise such discretion in the case of other Allottees.
20. Failure on the part of the Promoter to enforce at any time or for any period of time the
provisions hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of any provisions or of the
right thereafter to enforce each and every provision.
21. If any provision of this Agreement shall be determined to be void or unenforceable
under the Act or the Rules and Regulations made thereunder or under other applicable
laws, such provisions of the Agreement shall be deemed amended or deleted in so far
as reasonably inconsistent with the purpose of this Agreement and to the extent
necessary to conform to the Act or the Rules and Regulations made thereunder or the
applicable law, as the case may be, and the remaining provisions of this Agreement
shall remain valid and enforceable as applicable at the time of execution of this
Agreement
22. This Agreement may only be amended through written consent of the parties
23. That the rights and obligations of the parties under or arising out of this Agreement
shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws for the time being in
force.
24. The execution of this Agreement shall be complete only upon its execution by the
Promoter through its authorized signatory at the Promoter‟s Office, or at some other
place, which may be mutually agreed between the Promoter and the Allottee, in
_________________ after the Agreement is duly executed by the Allottee and the
Promoter or simultaneously with the execution the said Agreement shall be registered

58

at the office of the Sub-Registrar. Hence this Agreement shall be deemed to have
been executed at ________________
25. All or any disputes arising out or touching upon or in relation to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, including the interpretation and validity of the terms
thereof and the respective rights and obligations of the Parties, shall be settled
amicably by mutual discussion, failing which the same shall be settled through the
adjudicating officer appointed under the Act. [Please insert any other terms and
conditions as per the contractual understanding between the parties, however, please
ensure that such additional terms and conditions are not in derogation of or
inconsistent with the terms and conditions set out above or the Act and the Rules and
Regulations made thereunder.]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF parties hereinabove named have set their respective
hands and signed this Agreement for sale at
(city/town
name) in the presence of attesting witness, signing as such on the day first above
written.
SCHEDULE - A
(Description of the Total Land)
SCHEDULE - B
(Description of undivided share of land/plot hereby agreed to be conveyed to the
Allottee)
SCHEDULE “C”
(Schedule of Payment)
Schedule of payments to be paid by the Allottee to the Promoter for delivery of
SCHEDULE “B” PROPERTY:

IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE SET THEIR HANDS AND
SIGNED THEIR NAMES ON THIS AGREEMENT ON [ ] DAY OF [ ]

Allottee
Promoter
WITNESSES:
1.
2.

59

CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT.
THIS CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT (“AGREEMENT”) ENTERED INTO
AT [ ]
ON [ ]
BY AND BETWEEN
[If the promoter is a company] M/s.[ ] (CIN no.
), a company incorporated under the
provisions of the Companies Act, [1956 or 2013, as the case may be], having its
registered office at [ ] and its corporate office at [ ](PAN - ),
represented
by
its
authorized signatory [ ]
(Aadhar no. ) authorized VIDE board resolution dated [ ]
hereinafter referred to as the “Promoter” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the
context or meaning thereof be deemed to mean and include its successor-in-interest,
executors, administrators and permitted assignees);
[OR]
[If the promoter is a Partnership firm], [ ]a partnership firm registered under the Indian
Partnership Act,1932, having its principal place of business at [ ], (PAN), represented by
its authorized Partner [ ],(Aadhar no. ) authorized VIDE [ ], hereinafter referred to as the
“Promoter” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be
deemed to mean and include its successors-in-interest, executors, administrators and
permitted assignees, including those of the respective partners).
[OR]
[If the promoter is an Individual] Mr. / Ms.[ ] , (Aadhar no. ) son /daughter of [ ], aged
about [ ] , residing at [ ], (PAN
), hereinaftercalled the “Promoter” (which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to mean
and include his/her heirs, executors, administrators, successors-in- interest and permitted
assignees).
AND
[If the Allottee is a company] M/s. [ ], (CIN no.
) a company incorporated under the
provisions of the Companies Act, [1956 or 2013, as the case may be], having its
registered office at [ ], (PAN ), represented by its authorized signatory, [ ], (Aadhar no.
) duly authorized VIDE board resolution dated [ ], hereinafter referred to as the
“Allottee” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be
deemed to mean and include its successor-in-interest, executors, administrators and
permitted assignees).
[OR]
[If the Allottee is a Partnership] [ ], a partnership firm registered under the Indian
Partnership Act, 1932,having its principal place of business at [ ], (PAN),represented by
its authorized partner, [ ], (Aadhar no.
)authorized VIDE [ ], hereinafter referred to
as the “Allottee”(which expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning

60

thereof be deemed to mean and include its successors-in-interest, executors,
administrators and permitted assignees, including those of the respective partners).
[OR]
[If the Allottee is an Individual]Mr. / Ms.[ ], (Aadhar no. ) son / daughter of [ ], aged
about [ ], residing at [ ], (PAN
), hereinafter called the “Allottee” (which
expression shall unless repugnant to the context or meaning thereof be deemed to mean
and include his/her heirs, executors, administrators, successors-in-interest and permitted
assignees).
[OR]
[If the Allottee is a HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY\Mr. [ ], (Aadhar no. ) son of [ ]
aged about [ ] for self and as the Karta of the Hindu Joint Mitakshara Family known as [ ]
HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY, having its place of business / residence at [ ], (PAN ),
hereinafter referred to as the “Allottee” (which expression shall unless repugnant to the
context or meaning thereof be deemed to include his heirs, representatives, executors,
administrators, successors-in-interest and permitted assigns as well as the members of the
said HINDU UNDIVIDED FAMILY, their heirs, executors, administrators, successorsin-interest and permitted assignees).
[Please insert details of other Allottee(s), in case of more than one Allottee]
The Promoter and the Allottee shall hereinafter be either collectively referred to as
“Parties” and/ or individually as “Party”.
WHEREAS
A. The Promoter is the absolute and lawful owner of lands admeasuring [ ] square

meters comprised in S.Nos.[ ] situated at [ ] Village, [ ] Taluk, [ ] District, morefully
described in Schedule A hereunder (“Said Land”) VIDE sale deed(s) dated registered
as documents no.[ ] at the office of the Sub-Registrar;
[OR]
[ ](“Owner”) is/are the absolute and lawful owner of lands admeasuring [ ] square
meters comprised in S.Nos.[ ] situated at [ ] Village, [ ] Taluk, [ ] District
(“Said
Land”) VIDE sale deed(s) dated registered as documents no. at the office of the
Sub-Registrar. The Owner and the Promoter have entered into a
[collaboration/development/joint development] agreement dated [ ];
B. The Promoter has formulated a scheme for developing the Said Land. The Said Land

is earmarked for the purpose of building a [commercial/residential/any other
purpose] project comprising of [ ] Towers having [ ] Blocks with [ ] Floors having [ ]
with amenities and facilities (“Project”).
C. The Promoter has obtained requisite sanctions, authorizations, consents, no
objections, permissions and approvals from the appropriate authorities for

61

D.
E.

F.

G.

H.

I.

construction and development of the Project vide Planning Permit No.[ ] dated [ ]
issued by [ ]and Building Permit No.[ ] dated [ ] issued by [ ];
The Promoter has registered the Project under the provisions of the Act with the
Real Estate Regulatory Authority at [ ] on [ ] under registration No [ ].
The Allottee has already scrutinized / verified all sanctions, authorizations, consents,
no objections, permissions and approvals issued by the appropriate authorities and is
satisfied with the title and statutory compliance with regards to the Project;
The Allottee desirous of owning an apartment in the Project has entered into an
Agreement for Sale with the Owner for purchase of [ ] square feet of undivided share
of land in the Said Land, which is morefully described in Schedule B hereunder and
secured the right to appoint Promoter to construct an apartment as per the scheme
formulated by the Promoter;
The Allottee has now applied for construction of an apartment in the Project vide
application no.[ ] dated [ ] to the Promoter and the Promoter has agreed to construct
and allot apartment no.[ ] having carpet area of [ ] square feet , type [ ], on [ ] floor in
[tower/block/building] along with [ ] reserved car parking No.[ ] and proportionate
share in the common area as, morefully described in Schedule B hereunder
(„Apartment‟) to the Allottee.
The Promoter is fully competent to enter into this Agreement and all the legal
formalities with respect to the right, title and interest of the Promoter regarding the
Said Land on which Project is to be constructed have been completed;
The Parties have decided to reduce the terms and conditions mutually agreed upon
into writing through these presents.
NOW THEREFORE THIS AGREEMENT WITNESSETH AS
FOLLOWS:
The Promoter and the Allottee mutually agree and covenant as follows:
1.
ALLOTMENT:
The Promoter hereby agrees to construct, allot and deliver the Apartment, as per
the specifications mentioned in the Annexure hereunder, to the Allottee at the
cost of the Allottee.
2.
CONSTRUCTION COSTS AND OTHER RELATED PAYMENTS:
a. The Construction Cost for the Apartment based on the carpet area is Rs. [ ]
(Rupees [ ] only). The Construction Cost includes the following
Block/Building/Tower
Apartmentno.TypeFloor

no.

Amount

62

Rupees __________________ only ("Construction Cost) (Give break up and
description):
Provide break up of the amounts such as cost of apartment, proportionate
cost of common areas, preferential location charges, taxes etc.
The Construction Cost above includes the booking amount paid by the Allottee to
the Promoter towards the Apartment;
1.

2.

3.

4.

5.

6.

The Construction Cost above includes Taxes (consisting of tax paid or
payable by the Promoter by way of Value Added Tax, Service Tax, and
Cess or any other similar taxes which may be levied, in connection with the
construction of the Project payable by the Promoter) up to the date of
handing over the possession of the Apartment:
Provided that in case there is any change / modification in the existing taxes
and any other new Taxes, the subsequent amount payable by the Allottee to
the promoter shall be increased/reduced based on such change /
modification.
The Promoter shall periodically intimate to the Allottee, the amount
payable as stated in (1) above and the Allottee shall make payment within (--------) days from the date of such written intimation.
The Construction Cost is escalation-free, save and except increases, which
the
Allottee hereby agrees to pay, due to increase on account of
development charges payable to the competent authority and/or any other
increase in charges, which may be levied or imposed by the competent
authority from time to time.
The Promoter undertakes and agrees that while raising a demand on the
Allottee for increase in development charges, cost/charges imposed by the
competent authorities, the Promoter shall quote the said
notification/order/rule/regulation to that effect along with the demand letter
being issued to the Allottee.
The Allottee(s) shall make the payment as per the payment plan set out in
Schedule D (“Payment Plan”). The Allottee authorizes the Promoter to
adjust/appropriate all payments made by him/her under any head(s) of dues
against lawful outstanding, if any, in his/her name as the Promoter may in
its sole discretion deem fit and the Allottee undertakes not to
object/demand/direct the Promoter to adjust this payment in any manner.

 In case maintenance of the project is done by the promoter after hand over,
promoter shall be entitled to collect advance maintenance charges as mutually
agreed with the Allottee/s
7.

a sum of Rs.[ ]/- (Rupees [ ] only) towards corpus fund, to be utilized for
major expenditure in maintenance of the building and other infrastructural
facilities and amenities in the Project shall be paid at the time of handing

63

3.
(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)

(e)

(f)

over possession of the SCHEDULE “C” PROPERTY. The Promoter shall
transfer this amount after deducting any expenses incurred, for the purpose
of maintenance of the buildings; without interest to the agency to be
appointed by them or the Association / Society to be formed by the Allottee.
MODE OF PAYMENT:
The Allottee has paid a sum of Rs.[ ]/- (Rupees [ ]only), to the Promoter vide
Cheque No. [ ] dated [ ] drawn on [ ]Bank, [ ] Branch Chennai, as booking amount
at the time of allotment of the Apartment;
The Allottee shall pay the balance consideration amount as per the schedule of
payments detailed in the SCHEDULE– D hereunder;
The Allottee hereby undertake/s and assure/s that based on the stage intimation
letters issued / to be issued by the Promoter to the Allottee, the above payments
shall be made by the Allottee within the due date and without any further demand,
as time for payment of the above said sums being the essence of the contract and
the Allottee is fully informed by the Promoter that any default in payment of the
above said amount would affect the completion of the Project;
All payments shall be made by Cheques or Demand Drafts or through RTGS.
The date of credit of the amount into the account of the Promoter will be
considered as the date of payment made by the Allottee and the delayed payment
charges will become payable from the due date;
The Allottee shall not delay, withhold or postpone the payments due as mentioned
in SCHEDULE-D, on whatever reason and in that event, Allottee shall be
responsible for any consequential sufferance or damages and they shall adhere to
clause 5(a)(1) mentioned herein.
The Allottee, if resident outside India, shall be solely responsible for complying
with the necessary formalities as laid down in Foreign Exchange Management Act,
1999, Reserve Bank of India Act and Rules and Regulations made thereunder or
any statutory amendment(s) modification(s) made thereof and all other applicable
laws including that of remittance of payment acquisition/sale/transfer of
immovable properties in India etc. and provide the Promoter with such permission,
approvals which would enable the Promoter to fulfill its obligations under this
Agreement. Any refund, transfer of security, if provided in terms of the
Agreement shall be made in accordance with the provisions of Foreign Exchange
Management Act, 1999 or statutory enactments or amendments thereof and the
Rules and Regulations of the Reserve Bank of India or any other applicable law.
The Allottee understands and agrees that in the event of any failure on his/her part
to comply with the applicable guidelines issued by the Reserve Bank of India,
he/she shall be liable for any action under the Foreign Exchange Management Act,
1999 or other laws as applicable, as amended from time to time. The Promoter
accepts no responsibility in this regard. The Allottee shall keep the Promoter fully
indemnified and harmless in this regard. Whenever there is any change in the
residential status of the Allottee subsequent to the signing of this Agreement, it
shall be the sole responsibility of the Allottee to intimate the same in writing to
the Promoter immediately and comply with necessary formalities if any under the

64

4.
(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

applicable laws. The Promoter shall not be responsible towards any third party
making payment/remittances on behalf of any Allottee and such third party shall
not have any right in the application/allotment of the said apartment applied for
herein in any way and the Promoter shall be issuing the payment receipts in
favour of the Allottee only.
PERIOD OF COMPLETION AND HANDING OVER OF POSSESSION:
The Promoter shall endeavor to complete the construction of the Apartment
within [ ] months with grace period of [ ] months from the date of this Agreement.
The Promoter agrees and understands that timely delivery of possession of the
Apartment is the essence of the Agreement. The Promoter, based on the approved
plans and specifications, assures to hand over possession of the Apartment as
committed, unless there is delay or failure due to war, flood, drought, fire, cyclone,
earthquake or any other calamity caused by nature affecting the regular
development of the real estate project (“Force Majeure”). If, however, the
completion of the Project is delayed due to the Force Majeure conditions then the
Allottee agrees that the Promoter shall be entitled to the extension of time for
delivery of possession of the Apartment, provided that such Force Majeure
conditions are not of a nature, which make it impossible for the contract to be
implemented. The Allottee agrees and confirms that, in the event it becomes
impossible for the Promoter to implement the project due to Force Majeure
conditions, then this allotment shall stand terminated and the Promoter shall
refund to the Allottee the entire amount received by the Promoter from the
allotment within (---) days from that date of determination of impossibility of
performance. After refund of the money paid by the Allottee, Allottee agrees that
he/ she shall not have any rights, claims etc. against the Promoter and that the
Promoter shall be released and discharged from all its obligations and liabilities
under this Agreement
The Promoter, upon completion of construction of the Apartment shall intimate to
the Allottee of the same at the last known address of the Allottee by letter and the
Allottee shall take possession of the Apartment within (----)days of receipt of such
intimation. The Promoter shall not be liable in any manner whatsoever, for failure
of the Allottee to take over possession of the Apartment.
Upon receiving a written intimation from the Promoter as per clause 4 (b), the
Allottee shall take possession of the Apartment from the Promoter by executing
necessary indemnities, undertakings and such other documentation as prescribed
in this Agreement, and the Promoter shall give possession of the Apartment to the
Allottee. In case the Allottee fails to take possession within the time provided in
clause 4(b), such Allottee shall continue to be liable to pay maintenance charges
as applicable
The Promoter shall hand over possession of the Apartment to the Allottee as
committed subject to receipt of the entire consideration including the other
payments as per Schedule D. It is made abundantly clear that the obligation of the
Promoter to handover the Apartment to the Allottee does not arise until the
Promoter receives the entire payment/s as mentioned in Schedule D

65

(e) The Allottee shall not do or permit any agent / workers to carry out any work in
the Apartment, until possession is handed over to the Allottee.
5.
1.

2.

3.
4.

BREACH OF TERMS AND ITS REMEDY:
(a)
Allottee‟S COVENANT:
In the event of the Allottee failing to pay the aforesaid sums, in the manner
provided in Schedule D or cancel/withdraw from the Project except for the default
of the Promoter, then the Promoter at their discretion after due notice of (----)
days to the Allottee is entitled to cancel this Agreement and re-allot the Apartment,
to the another party and the Allottee shall thereafter have no right, interest or
claim over the Apartment. Consequent to such termination, subject to deduction
of the booking amount, the Promoter shall refund the monies collected from the
Allottee within (----) days of such cancellation without interest, simultaneous to
the Allottee executing necessary cancellation and registration of the Agreement
and/or sale deed by the Allottee.
The Allottee hereby agrees that the assignment of the Allottee‟s right under this
agreement to any third party is subject to the prior written permission of the
Promoter and further agrees to pay to the Promoter an Assignment fee of [ ]% of
Construction Cost („Assignment Fee‟).
The Parties hereby confirm that this Agreement and the Agreement for Sale of
even date entered into by the Allottee shall co-exist or co-terminate.
It is specifically agreed by the Allottee that the Allottee shall bear all statutory
charges from the date of intimating the readiness of the Apartment for handover
by the Promoter
(b)
PROMOTER‟S COVENANT:
Subject to the Force Majeure clause, the Promoter shall be considered to be on
default, in the following events:

1. Promoter fails to provide ready to move in possession of the Apartment to the
Allottee within the time period specified. For the purpose of this clause, 'ready to
move in possession' shall mean that the apartment shall be in a habitable condition
which is complete in all respects;
2. Discontinuance of the Promoter‟s business as a developer on account of
suspension or revocation of his registration under the provisions of the Real Estate
Regulatory Authority Act or the rules or regulations made there under;
3. In case of Default by Promoter under the conditions listed above, Allottee is
entitled to the following:
(i)

(ii)

Stop making further payments to Promoter as demanded by the Promoter.
If the Allottee stops making payments, the Promoter shall correct the
situation by completing the construction milestones and only thereafter the
Allottee be required to make the next payment without any penal interest;
or
The Allottee shall have the option of terminating the Agreement in which

66

case the Promoter shall be liable to refund the entire money paid by the
Allottee under any head whatsoever towards the purchase of the Apartment,
along with interest at the rate specified in the Rules within (-----)of
receiving the termination notice, simultaneous to the execution of
cancellation agreement and registration thereof, if required

6.

(a)

(b)

(c)

(d)

(d)

(e)

(f)

Provided that where an Allottee does not intend to withdraw from the
project or terminate the Agreement, he/she shall be paid, by the promoter,
interest at the rate specified in the Rules, for every month of delay till the
handing over of the possession of the Apartment.
MAINTENANCE OF COMMON AREAS AND AMENITIES IN THE
PROJECT:
The Promoter shall provide essential maintenance services to common areas /
amenities / facilities from the date of completion of the Project at reasonable cost,
by themselves or through any other agency appointed by the Promoter.
The Parties may mutually agree to execute an independent maintenance
agreement at the time of handover of the Apartment with the Promoter or
nominated maintenance agency. The rights, duties and obligation of maintenance
of the Common Areas and amenities provided in the Project may be captured in
the said maintenance agreement („Maintenance Agreement‟). The Promoter shall
deduct the monthly maintenance charges from the Maintenance Advance, if any
collected.
Any capital expenditure for providing additional amenities shall be met out by the
Promoter from and out of the Corpus Fund with the consent of the association of
allottees.
The capital expenditure spent of the Corpus Fund shall be replenished by raising
pro-rate demand and collection from each Allottee, if the Allottee defaults in
making the proportionate Corpus Fund the Promoter shall be entitled to collect the
prescribed interest for the due payments.
The Allottee along with the other allottees of the Project shall ensure that the
owners welfare association is formed as per the provisions of the Tamil Nadu
Apartment Ownership Act, 1994 („Owners Association‟). The Promoter shall
render its co-operation and facilitate in formation of the Owners Association.
The Promoter shall render proper accounts to the Owners Association at the time
of handover of the maintenance with respect to the spending from Advance
Maintenance charges and Corpus Fund collected.
Subsequent to the taking over of maintenance by the Owners Association, the
Allottee shall continue to pay the all costs, charges, expenses, relating to the
management, maintenance and upkeep of common areas and common facilities /
amenities including but not limited to Sewerage Treatment Plant/Effluent
Treatment Plant, Water Treatment Plant, RO Plats Lifts, Motors, pumps, bio
metric systems, dish antennas, net work cablings etc., etc., within the Project on
pro-rata basis or in another manner as deem fit by the Association. The Promoter

67

(g)

7.
(a)

(b)
(c )

shall not be liable for any shortcomings or deficiency thereof, in any manner
whatsoever.
It is specifically agreed by the Allottee that the Allottee shall pay their pro-rata
maintenance charges for the common areas, common amenities / facilities in the
Project in time and without any delay and in the event of the Allottee‟s inability to
pay the maintenance charges or any default or delay in payment of maintenance
charges and deposits if any, the Allottee may be deprived of his/her/its/their rights
to enjoy the common facilities and amenities. In addition to that, such defaults
will be displayed in the notice board within the Project.
SANCTIONS AND APPROVALS:
The statutory approvals, including State and Central Government
approvals/permissions including amendments / modifications / alterations, its
departments, local bodies, authorities, Chennai Metropolitan Development
Authority, Tamil Nadu Electricity Board, Corporation of Chennai, and all other
concerned authorities, may mandate the Promoter to handover certain percentage
of land to the statutory authorities concerned, as a condition for granting approval.
The Promoter shall have absolute discretion to determine and identify the portion
of the land to be handed over for complying with the terms and conditions of
statutory approvals
The Promoter hereby covenants that the Project shall be constructed as per the
approved building plan.
The Allottee is aware that the present plans sanctioned by the competent authority
is valid for specific term, the promoter shall be responsible to get the approvals
duly renewed, the Allottee hereby give their specific consent and empower the
promoter to file necessary renewal application with the appropriate authority and
to comply with any statutory requirement for such renewal.

9.

DEFECTS LIABILITY:

10.

The Promoter shall rectify any structural defects with respect to the Apartment
(normal wear and tear is exempted), which shall not be as the result of any
commission or omission of the Allottee, any damages caused due to the acts of
god or natural calamities or fire accidents, any willful or accidental damages
caused, any damages caused due to tampering by the Allottee, any product that has
been installed by the Promoter brought to the notice of the Promoter within 5 years
from the date of intimating the readiness to handover of the Apartment and
thereafter no claim shall be entertained against the Promoter in respect of any
alleged defective work in the Apartment and/or Project under any circumstances.
The above liability of the Promoter shall be restricted only to rectify / repair the
above defects and any consequential damages will not be covered under this
Agreement. Structural defects shall not include plastering hairline crack. Third
party warranty on products shall be governed by the terms and conditions provided
by the manufacturer of the respective products.
LOANS AND FINANCIAL ASSISTANCES:

68

(a)

(b)
(c)

(d)

11.
(a)

(b)

(c)

The original Sale Deed relating to the SCHEDULE “B” PROPERTY will be
under the custody of the Promoter till such time all / last payment including cost
of construction and extra amenities are paid / settled by the Allottee to the
Promoter. However, if the Allottee prefers/s to avail loan, the original Sale Deed
in respect of SCHEDULE “B” PROPERTY will be released directly to the
mortgagee / Banks / Financial Institutions, after obtaining a commitment letter
from the mortgagee / banks / financial institutions. The Promoter undertakes to
furnish one set of photocopies of title deeds pertaining to the SCHEDULE “A”
PROPERTY to the Allottee. In the event of foreclosure of the loan by the Allottee
prior to handing over the SCHEDULE “C” PROPERTY by the Promoter to the
Allottee, the Allottee shall hand over the original Sale Deed to the Promoter and
the Promoter will have the custody of the documents till such time all / last
payment including cost of construction and extra amenities are paid / settled by
the Allottee to the Promoter
All the payments to be paid under this Agreement by the Allottee to the Promoter,
apart from the loan amount, shall be paid directly by the Allottee to the Promoter;
All the loan amount/s, availed by the Allottee, shall be directly disbursed /
released by the bank / financial institution to the Promoter and the same shall be
treated as payments made on behalf of the Allottee;
Not withstanding whether the loan is obtained or not, the Allottee shall still be
liable to pay to the Promoter on the due dates the relevant installments and all
other sums due under this Agreement and in the event, if there is any delay and or
default is made in payment of such amount/s, the Allottee shall be liable for the
consequences including payment of delayed payment charges on the outstanding
payment as provided in this agreement.
RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE ALLOTTEE:
While the Allottee would have absolute and exclusive ownership / possession /
enjoyment of the Apartment, after handing over, the Allottee‟s right, title and
interest in the common areas shall be enjoyed in concurrence with other owners /
residents of other apartments in the Project, who would be equally entitled to the
common amenities / facilities / easements available in the Project, all costs of
repairs / maintenance of which common enjoyments shall be shared by all the
owners, including the Allottee as per the articles / regulations / bye-laws of the
Association to be formed by all the apartment owners in the Project;
It is abundantly made clear that all the service lines, ducts, watercourses and other
facilities passing through the Said Land shall be treated as common to all the
owners, which shall be maintained by the Association. The owners of the
apartments shall not object to the common services passing through their
respective apartments and allow the service persons to do the maintenance
services in the areas through which the services are passing through;
The Allottee shall adhere to the maintenance and usage guidelines provided by the
Association to maintain harmonious community living and ensure that rights and
enjoyment of other apartment owners are not affected;

69

(d)

(e)

(f)

(g)

(h)

(i)
(j)

(k)
(l)

(m)
(n)
(o)

(p)

The Allottee covenants not to make any alteration in the structure of the
Apartment, which may affect directly or indirectly, the structural safety &
stability and the aesthetic elevation of the building complex;
The Allottee or their tenants (Occupants) and/or Association shall not, at any time,
encroach and carry on in the common areas or within the SCHEDULE “A”
PROPERTY, any commercial trade or business or use it for storage of anything
which is offensive in nature, hazardous or inflammable or is likely to be a
nuisance or danger or diminish the value or the utility of the other portions of the
building in the Project in occupation of the owners of other apartments or their
successors in title and further shall not do or commit any activity which is
unlawful and anti–social;
The Allottee shall either in his/her/its/their individual capacity or as a member of
the Association / Society, after its formation, come to an understanding with the
other owners of the apartment shall operate and maintain all the essential
amenities like STP, RO, Genset, fire fighting equipments, elevator, piped gas,
Rain water harvesting etc either individually or through the Association whenever
required and in good running condition. It is the responsibility of the Allottee and
or the Association to ensure proper assistance to the government officials
concerned during periodical inspection.
The Allottee shall not either in his/her/its/their individual capacity or as a member
of the Association, after its formation, come to an understanding with the other
owners of the apartment to utilize the common areas for commercial purposes or
for earning income from outsiders;
The Allottee agrees to sign from time to time all papers and documents and to do
all things as the Promoter may require, for the effective completion of the
construction and in matters connected with obtaining, erecting and providing the
infrastructural facilities like water, sewerage, electricity, etc;
The Allottee shall not encroach upon the common areas;
The Allottee shall not decorate the exterior of the proposed buildings in the
Project otherwise than in a manner agreed to by the majority of the apartment
owners with the prior permission of the Association;
The Allottee shall not put up any temporary or permanent structure anywhere in
the Project nor change the elevation of the proposed buildings;
The Allottee shall not make any alterations in the structural feature of the
proposed building like R.C.C. Flooring, Roofing, columns and external walls
during \ after completion, including the parking space allotted;
The Allottee shall use the Apartment only for residential purposes and not to use
for any other purposes and for business prohibited by law;
The Allottee shall not cause any nuisance to the other occupants of proposed
apartments in the Project;
The Allottee shall have no right to hinder the progress of construction of the
residential apartment buildings in the Project or any part thereof under any
circumstances whatsoever, and at whatever stage of construction;
The Allottee shall give all necessary support, assistance to the other apartment
owners /Association. The supporting common walls and roofs and all common

70

(q)

12.
(a)

(b)

(c)
14.

15.

16.

areas of the buildings in the Project shall be maintained and repaired in common
by all the owners of the apartments in the Project;
The Allottee shall park their cars / vehicles only at the specific car parking space
allotted to the Allottee and not at any other place around the building and shall use
the Car Parking space only for parking their vehicles and shall not use the parking
space for other purposes including storage of materials;
RIGHTS AND DUTIES OF THE PROMOTER:
The Promoter undertakes to develop the Project with good workmanship using
standard materials, through its own labour, materials, tools, machineries and other
equipment for the purpose of construction, or by appointing contractors / sub –
contractors, engineers and supervisors at their choice and to take steps to complete
the SCHEDULE “C” PROPERTY within the time stipulated for completion of the
same;
The Promoter shall be responsible and liable to pay the land tax in respect of the
Said Land up to the date of execution and registration of Sale Deed in respect of
SCHEDULE “B” PROPERTY or delivery of possession of the SCHEDULE “C”
PROPERTY to the Allottee, whichever is earlier. From the date of intimating the
readiness to hand over possession, the Allottee is solely responsible and liable for
property tax and other relevant taxes / charges and duties to the respective
authorities with respect to the SCHEDULE “B & C” PROPERTY;
The Promoter will provide only electrical points. The cost of all electrical fixtures
and consumables like bulbs, fans, fittings etc., will be borne by the Allottee;
NAME OF THE PROJECT:
The Project to be developed by the Promoter in the SCHEDULE “A”
PROPERTY is named as [ ], which shall not be changed / altered by the Allottee
at any point of time. The Promoter is expressly permitted to display, at all times,
the name and logo of the Project along with the name of the Promoter or their
group companies, upon the Project in such location and in the style and format of
the Promoter‟s choice. The Promoter shall have exclusive proprietary and other
rights, title and interest on such name.
RIGHT TO ENTER THE APARTMENT FOR REPAIRS
The Promoter / maintenance agency /association of allottees shall have rights of
unrestricted access of all Common Areas, garages/closed parking‟s and parking
spaces for providing necessary maintenance services and the Allottee agrees to
permit the association of allottees and/or maintenance agency to enter into the
Apartment or any part thereof, after due notice and during the normal working
hours, unless the circumstances warrant otherwise, with a view to set right any
defect.
USAGE
Use of Basement and Service Areas: The basement(s) and service areas, if any, as
located within the
(project name), shall be earmarked for purposes such as
parking spaces and services including but not limited to electric sub-station,
transformer, DG set rooms, underground water tanks, pump rooms, maintenance
and service rooms, fire fighting pumps and equipment‟s etc. and other permitted

71

17.

18.

19.

20

21
22

23
a)

uses as per sanctioned plans. The Allottee shall not be permitted to use the
services areas and the basements in any manner whatsoever, other than those
earmarked as parking spaces, and the same shall be reserved for use by the
association of allottees formed by the Allottees for rendering maintenance
services.
COMPLIANCE OF LAWS, NOTIFICATIONS ETC., BY ALLOTTEE
The Allottee is entering into this Agreement for the allotment of a Apartment with
the full knowledge of all laws, rules, regulations, notifications applicable to the
Project in general and this project in particular. That the Allottee hereby
undertakes that he/she shall comply with and carry out, from time to time after
he/she has taken over for occupation and use the said Apartment, all the
requirements, requisitions, demands and repairs which are required by any
competent Authority in respect of the Apartment/ at his/ her own cost.
ADDITIONAL CONSTRUCTIONS
The Promoter undertakes that it has no right to make additions or to put up
additional structure(s) anywhere in the Project after the building plan has been
approved by the competent authority(ies) except for as provided in the Act.
APARTMENT OWNERSHIP ACT
The Promoter has assured the allottees that the project in its entirety is in
accordance with the provisions of the Tamil Nadu Apartment ownership Act,
1994 and Allottee shall comply with the compliance as required under the
Apartment Ownership Act.
ENTIRE AGREEMENT
This Agreement, along with its schedules, constitutes the entire Agreement
between the Parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes any
and all understandings, any other agreements, allotment letter, correspondences,
arrangements whether written or oral, if any, between the Parties in regard to the
said apartment/plot/building, as the case may be.
RIGHT TO AMEND
This Agreement may only be amended through written consent of the parties.
PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT APPLICABLE ON Allottee /
SUBSEQUENT ALLOTTEES
It is clearly understood and so agreed by and between the Parties hereto that all
the provisions contained herein and the obligations arising hereunder in respect of
the Project shall equally be applicable to and enforceable against any subsequent
Allottees of the Apartment, in case of a transfer, as the said obligations go along
with the Apartment for all intents and purposes.
WAIVER NOT A LIMITATION TO ENFORCE
The Promoter may, at its sole option and discretion, without prejudice to its rights
as set out in this Agreement, waive the breach by the Allottee in not making
payments as per the Payment Plan including waiving the payment of interest for
delayed payment. It is made clear and so agreed by the Allottee that exercise of
discretion by the Promoter in the case of one Allottee shall not be construed to be
a precedent and /or binding on the Promoter to exercise such discretion in the case
of other Allottees.

72

b)

24.

25.

26.

27.

28.

Failure on the part of the Promoter to enforce at any time or for any period of time
the provisions hereof shall not be construed to be a waiver of any provisions or of
the right thereafter to enforce each and every provision.
SEVERABILITY
If any provision of this Agreement shall be determined to be void or
unenforceable under the Act or the Rules and Regulations made thereunder or
under other applicable laws, such provisions of the Agreement shall be deemed
amended or deleted in so far as reasonably inconsistent with the purpose of this
Agreement and to the extent necessary to conform to Act or the Rules and
Regulations made thereunder or the applicable law, as the case may be, and the
remaining provisions of this Agreement shall remain valid and enforceable as
applicable at the time of execution of this Agreement.
METHOD OF CALCULATION OF PROPORTIONATE SHARE WHEREVER
REFERRED TO IN THE AGREEMENT
Wherever in this Agreement it is stipulated that the Allottee has to make any
payment, in common with other Allottee(s) in Project, the same shall be the
proportion which the carpet area of the Apartment bears to the total carpet area of
all the [Apartments/Plots] in the Project.
FURTHER ASSURANCES
Both Parties agree that they shall execute, acknowledge and deliver to the other
such instruments and take such other actions, in additions to the instruments and
actions specifically provided for herein, as may be reasonably required in order to
effectuate the provisions of this Agreement or of any transaction contemplated
herein or to confirm or perfect any right to be created or transferred hereunder or
pursuant to any such transaction.
PLACE OF EXECUTION
The execution of this Agreement shall be complete only upon its execution by the
Promoter through its authorized signatory at the Promoter‟s Office, or at some
other place, which may be mutually agreed between the Promoter and the Allottee,
in _________________ after the Agreement is duly executed by the Allottee and
the Promoter or simultaneously with the execution the said Agreement shall be
registered at the office of the Sub-Registrar. Hence this Agreement shall be
deemed to have been executed at ________________.
NOTICES
That all notices to be served on the Allottee and the Promoter as contemplated by
this Agreement shall be deemed to have been duly served if sent to the Allottee or
the Promoter by Registered Post/ e-mail/ courier at their respective addresses
specified below:
_____________ (Name of Allottee)
_____________ (Allottee Address)
M/s
(Promoter name)
____________ (Promoter Address)
It shall be the duty of the Allottee and the promoter to inform each other of any
change in address subsequent to the execution of this Agreement in the above
address by Registered Post failing which all communications and letters posted at

73

29

30

31

the above address shall be deemed to have been received by the promoter or the
Allottee, as the case may be.
JOINT ALLOTTEES
That in case there are Joint Allottees all communications shall be sent by the
Promoter to the Allottee whose name appears first and at the address given by
him/her which shall for all intents and purposes to consider as properly served on
all the Allottees.
GOVERNING LAW
That the rights and obligations of the parties under or arising out of this
Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the laws of India
for the time being in force.
DISPUTE RESOLUTION
All or any disputes arising out or touching upon or in relation to the terms and
conditions of this Agreement, including the interpretation and validity of the terms
thereof and the respective rights and obligations of the Parties, shall be settled
amicably by mutual discussion, failing which the same shall be settled through the
adjudicating officer appointed under the Act. [Please insert any other terms and
conditions as per the contractual understanding between the parties, however,
please ensure that such additional terms and conditions are not in derogation of
or inconsistent with the terms and conditions set out above or the Act and the
Rules and Regulations made thereunder.]
IN WITNESS WHEREOF parties hereinabove named have set their respective
hands and signed this Agreement for sale at
(city/town
name) in the presence of attesting witness, signing as such on the day first above
written.
SCHEDULE - A
(Description of the Total Land)
“All that piece and parcel of vacant lands measuring an total extent of [ ] Sq.Ft in
which [ ] Sq.Ft., of land has been gifted to appropriate Authority and remaining
extent of [ ] Sq.Ft, situated at
-----------, comprised in - New
Survey Nos[ ] [ ]Village, [ ] Taluk, [ ] District, Tamil Nadu, being bounded on the
North By
:
[]
South By
:
[]
East By
:
[]
West By
:
[]
and situate in the Sub-Registration District of ---------, in the Registration District
of ---------------”.
SCHEDULE - B
(Description of undivided share of land hereby agreed to be conveyed to the
Allottee) [ ]square feet undivided share of land in the SCHEDULE “A”
PROPERTY”

74

SCHEDULE “C”
(Description of Apartment)
“Apartment Bearing No.[ ], having carpet area of [ ] square feet, in the [ ]Floor of Block
No.[ ] in Tower No.[ ], in the residential apartment complex known as
SCHEDULE “D”
(Schedule of Payment)
Schedule of payments to be paid by the Allottee to the Promoter for construction and
delivery of the SCHEDULE “C” PROPERTY:
Sl.
No.
1
2

Period of payment

Percentage

ANNEXURE
(Features of the Apartment)
STRUCTURE:
IN WITNESS WHEREOF THE PARTIES HERETO HAVE SET THEIR HANDS AND
SIGNED THEIR NAMES ON THIS CONSTRUCTION AGREEMENT ON ______
DAY OF ___________
Allottee

Promoter
WITNESSES:
1.
2.
DRAFTED BY
//True Copy//
Section Officer



[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2012-14.
[R. Dis. No. 197/2009.
[Price : Rs. 12.80 Paise.

©
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
2018

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY
No. 24]

chennai, wednesday, June 13, 2018					
Vaikasi 30, Vilambi, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2049

Part III—Section 2
Statutory Notifications and Orders issued by
Heads of Departments.
notifications by heads of departments, etc.

contents

Pages.
TAMIL NADU REAL ESTATE REGULATORY AUTHORITY, CHENNAI
Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (General) Regulations, 2018

..

..

40-69

Chennai Port Trust
General Administration Department
Notification

DTP—III-2 (24)

..

..

..

..

..

[39]

..

..

..

..

70

40

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

Notifications by heads of departments, etc.

TAMIL NADU real estate regulatory authority, chennai
Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (General) Regulations, 2018.
(Letter No. TNRERA/827/2017.)
No. SRO C-13/2018.—In exercise of the powers conferred on it under sub-section (1) and clause (i) of sub-section (2)
of Section 85 of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development)   Act, 2016 (Central Act, 16 of 2016) and of all other
powers enabling it in that behalf, the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority hereby makes the following Regulations:CHAPTER I
PRELIMINARY
1. Short Title, Commencement:
(a) These Regulations may be called the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (General) Regulations, 2018
(b) These Regulations shall come into force on the date of their publication.
CHAPTER II
2. Definitions:- In these regulations, unless there is anything repugnant to the subject or context :
(i) “Act” and “Rules” shall mean the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act, 2016 and the Tamil Nadu Real Estate
(Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017, as amended from time to time;
(ii) “Address for Service” shall mean the address furnished by a party or his/her authorized agent, or his/her legal
practitioner, chartered accountant, company secretary, cost accountant at which service of summons, notices or other processes
may be effected;
      (iii) “Adjudication” means the process of arriving at decisions on complaints received by the Authority or the Adjudicating
Officer under Section 31 of the Act and under Sections 12, 14, 18 and 19 of the Act;
      (iv) “Adjudicating Officer” means the Adjudicating Officer appointed under sub-section (1) of Section 71;
      (v) “Application” means the full, correct and complete application made under Section 4 or under Section 9, as the case
may be, submitted online and also in hard copy to the Authority with all the details and all the documents required to be submitted
along with the prescribed charges and fees in compliance of the provisions of the Act, Rules and Regulations made thereunder;
(vi) “Authorized person” means a person authorized by the complainant or respondent or applicant to  represent him/her
before the Authority or the Adjudicating Officer and which term includes the persons as explained in the Section 56 of the Act;
(vii) “Authority” means the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority;
(viii) “Chairperson” means the Chairperson of the Authority;
(ix) “Complaint” means a written statement made under Section 31 of the Act;
       (x) “Complainant” means a person, who has filed complaint under Section 31 of the Act before the Authority or the
Adjudicating Officer, as the case may be;
       (xi) “Code” means the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908, as amended from time to time;
(xii)  “Member” means a member of the Authority;
(xiii) “Proceedings” means and include proceedings of all nature that the Authority / Adjudicator may conduct in the
discharge of its functions under the Act and the rules and regulations;

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

41

        (xiv) “Officer” means an officer of the Authority;        
        (xv) “Rule” means the rules made under the Act;
       (xvi) “Regulations” means the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (General) Regulations, 2018 as amended
from time to time;
Words and expressions not defined in this Regulations shall have the same meaning as assigned in the Act and the
Rules.
3. Area of Jurisdiction:
Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority Regulations (General), 2018, is applicable to the State of Tamil Nadu
covering both planning area and non planning area and also applicable to the Union Territory of Andaman & Nicobar Islands.

CHAPTER III
4. Submission of application and fee for Registration:
(a)

Every application under Section 4 and Section 9 of the Act shall be submitted online as well as in hard copy with all
the details and documents to the Authority along with the prescribed charges & fees.

(b)

The hard copy of the application along with all the details and documents should be submitted to Authority   at least
within a period of 7 days from the date of online submission of the application.

(c)

The Authority shall scrutinize those applications filed for registration for projects or agents, as the case may be,
and if it is found in order, registration certificate will be issued in the format prescribed within 30 days from the date
of submission for registration of  project or agent, as the case may be, as set out in Sub Rule (1) of Rule 6 and
Sub-Rule 1 under Rule 12 respectively.

(d)

If the application is incomplete, a letter / mail will be sent to the promoter or the Agent to furnish the required
particulars within such time as the Authority prescribes.

Explanation: 30 days period shall exclude the period granted to the registrants for compliance, if any, in such incomplete
applications as returned by the Authority.
(e)

The Authority in exercising the powers under sub-section (1) of Section 7 and sub-section (7) of Section 9 of the
Act read with the Rule 8 and 14 respectively to revoke the registration granted to a project or an agent, as the case
may be, a notice shall be caused to the registrant giving 10 days time to furnish his explanation and calling him for
enquiry and by granting a personal hearing before the Authority on the day as specified in the notice.

(f)

The Authority in exercising the powers under Sub-Clause (b) Sub-Section (1) of Section 5 and Sub-Clause (b) of
sub-section (3) of Section 9 of the Act to reject an application for registration, shall issue a notice to the registrant to
furnish such explanation and / or call upon him/her to appear in person or through a representative for such enquiry
before the Authority on the day specified in the Notice.

(g)

If after the personal hearing, the Authority is still not satisfied with the information provided in the application, it shall
reject such application (or) if after due notice for personal hearing has been given and if the party does not appear
for these hearings consecutively for two hearings on the date specified in the notice, the Authority shall reject the
application in default.

(h)

If the promoter / agent continuously fails to take steps to register the project / agent as contemplated under Section
3 & 9 of the Act, even after rejection of application for registration of project / agent either in default or on merits, the
Authority shall take action against the promoter / agent as provided under Section 59 & 62 of the Act.

(i)

When registration is mandated by the Act in respect of projects or agent, the Authority is empowered to issue a
show cause notice calling upon the promoter/agent to comply the same. Such show cause notice to the promoter/
agent shall be issued by the Authority by Registered Post/Courier service to the last known address of the promoter/

42

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

agent. If the notice is not served for want of specific address or any other particulars, if it is returned un-served, the
Authority may issue for a second time and again the notice is not served, the Authority shall order for a publication
in one vernacular daily in the region in which he is residing or his office is situated for appearance on a particular
date and even after the publication, if the party does not appear on that date before the Authority, then the Authority
may pass orders on merits of the case treating him as ex-parte.    
5. Registration Charges:
The promoter or agent shall be required to pay the Authority registration charges at the rate as determined by general or
special order of the Authority which is published on the website of the Authority from time to time for the following:
(i) Registration Fee:
Fee Structure (for Tamil Nadu)
1.

Layouts - Rs/5/- per sq. m. of plottable area excluding EWS, Roads and OSR

2.

Residential buildings –
a)

Rs.10/- per sq. m. of FSI area for residential project in which dwelling unit size is less than 60 square
meter;

b)

Rs.20/- per sq. m. of FSI area for other residential projects;

3.

Commercial buildings - Rs. 50/- per square meter of FSI area;

4.

Any other projects - Rs.25/- per square meter of FSI area ;

Fee Structure (for Andaman & Nicobar Islands)
1.

In case of group housing project - Rs.5/- sq.m. for projects where the area of land proposed to be developed does
not exceed 1000 sq.m. or Rs.10/- per sq. m. for projects where the area of land proposed to be developed exceeds
1000 sq. m. but shall not be more than Rs.5 lakhs;

2.

In case of mixed development (residential and commercial) project – Rs.10/- per sq.m. for projects where the area
of land proposed to be developed does not exceed 1000 sq.m.; or Rs.15/- per sq.m. for projects where the area of
land proposed to be developed exceeds 1000 sq. m., but shall not be more than Rs. 7 lakhs;

3.

In case of commercial projects – Rs.20/- per sq.m. for projects where the area of land proposed to be developed
does not exceed 1000 sq. m.; or Rs.25/- per sq. m. for projects where the area of land proposed to be developed
exceeds 1000 sq.m., but shall not be more than Rs.10 lakhs;

4.

In case of plotted development projects – Rs.5/- per square meter, but shall not be more than Rs.2 lakhs;
(ii)

Processing fee of 10% of the original registration fee for Renewal / Extension.

(iii) Fee for making any changes after registration, on application.
(iv) Fee for other matters as may be decided by the Authority by order from time to time.
(v)

Deduction of processing fee of 10% on the registration fee or full registration fee whichever is more for
withdrawal of the application by the applicant or return of the application for project/ real estate agent by the
authority due to insufficient particulars submitted by the applicant / promoter.  There will be no refund of any
amount for withdrawal after registration.

6. Publication of Advertisements:
Promoter shall not publish any advertisements for projects in any media (including press, electronic media, pamphlets,banners,
posters or publicity in any form) for booking of sale of units or for receipt of any advance sum from the allottee, unless the
registration certificate has been issued by the Authority in this regard.

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

43

CHAPTER IV
DISCLOSURES
7. Formats of Certificates of Architect, Engineer and Chartered Accountant:
a)

The certificates to be issued by the project architect, project engineer and chartered accountant in practice for
withdrawal of money from the separate account maintained under Section 4(2) (1) (D) of the Act shall be in
Form 1, 2 and 3 respectively.

b)

The certificate required to be issued by the Project Architect/Project Engineer on completion of each of the
building/block of the real estate project shall be in Form 4 and in Form 5 for Layout and Sub-division.

c)

The promoter shall furnish a Certificate from the Bank on their letter head as per the prescribed format Form 6 under
Section 4(2)(1)(D).

d)

The annual report on statement of accounts in Form 7, issued in accordance with the Proviso(D) to Section 4 (2)
(1) of the Act (i.e.,) shall be certified and signed by the Statutory Auditor of the promoter’s enterprise.

e)

The promoter shall designate an architect, an engineer, a chartered accountant who issues certificates for the
project to enable withdrawal of amounts from the separate account opened in compliance of the provisions under
Section 4 (2) (1) (D) of the Act for the work completed and such designated architect, engineer and chartered
accountant shall not be changed without prior concurrence of the Authority.

Explanation 1: The Chartered Accountant certifying the progress of the registered real estate project for the purpose of
withdrawal of amounts from the separate account should be a “different entity” than the Chartered Accountant who is the statutory
auditor of the promoter’s enterprise.
Explanation 2: If the Form 7 issued by the   statutory auditor reveals that any certificate issued by the project architect,
engineer or the chartered accountant has false or incorrect information, the amount collected for a particular project have not been
utilized for the project and the  withdrawal has not been complied with development of the project, the Authority shall, apart from
taking action against the promoter under the Act and Rules, also bring the matter to the concerned respective regulatory body of
the said architect, engineer or chartered accountant, for necessary penal action against them.
8. Additional disclosures by promoters on the website after registration:
(1) After registration of the project before the Authority, all the details of the proposed Real Estate Project, shall be uploaded
by the promoter within 7 days from the date of registration, on the allotted webpage on the website of the Authority with further
mandatory update once in every 3 months as required under sub-section (1) of Section 11 of the Act and Rule 17 (vi)(c) (d) of the
Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017.
(2) The promoter shall prominently display at the project site the sanctioned plans, layout plans, along with specifications,
approved by the Competent Authority and RERA registration details.
(3) In all advertisement and publicity related to the projects in any print, electronic on social media (including press,
electronic media, pamphlets, banners, posters or publicity in any form), shall bear the registration details of the project with the
RERA, and if the project does not fall within the ambit of RERA as per Section 3 (2) that should also be indicated.

44

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

CHAPTER V
Standard operating procedure
9. Procedure for dealing with complaints :
(1) Any aggrieved person may file a complaint with the Authority, under Section 31 of the Act read with Rule 37 save for any
violation under the Act or the Rules and Regulations made thereunder as those provided to be adjudicated by the Adjudicating
Officer, in Form M of Rule 37 (1) which shall be accompanied by a fee of Rs.1,000/- remitted online.  
(2) The aggrieved person or persons shall submit three sets of complaints or sufficient copies required to be sent to the
respondents along with supporting documents to the Authority by registered post or in person in office within 7 days from the date
of filing on-line, in case of Tamil Nadu and 10 days in case of Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
(3) The complaint shall be presented either in person by the applicant himself or through an advocate as contemplated under
Section 56 of the Act, and if through an advocate, necessary vakalat duly attested with enrollment number and with affixture of
court fee stamp of Rs.10/- as well as Advocate Welfare Fund stamp of Rs.30/- as prescribed in the civil court procedure, as the
case may be, shall be filed.
(4) An authorized representative other than advocate shall furnish an authorization in FORM – 8 and such authorization shall
contain the address of the representative with particulars of enrolment number or Registration Number, e-mail address or mobile
number for proper communication.
(5) When a number of complaints are made to the Authority based on similar facts and seeking the same or similar
relief against the same promoter in the same project, the Authority shall ordinarily club all such complaints and dispose them in
common proceedings.
(6) The designated officer of the Authority may at any time call upon the party to produce such further materials as and when
he is directed by the Authority in this regard.
(7) The complainant shall also pay the Authority a sum of Rs.600/- through online towards postage charges:
Bank:  Indian Bank, CMDA Branch
Current Account No: 65430 57988
		

Name: Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA)

		

IFSC Code: IDIB000I010
CHAPTER VI

10. Complaints before the Adjudicating Officer:
(1) Whereas, the Rule 38 of Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation & Development) Rules, 2017 read with Section 31 of Real
Estate (Regulation & Development) Act, 2016, prescribes the manner of filing complaints, for adjudging compensation under
Section 12, 14, 18 and 19 of the Act, before the Adjudicating Officer and the manner of holding an enquiry.
Provided that those complaints which are numerous and based on similar facts and praying for same relief sought against
the single promoter, all those complaints shall be clubbed and disposed in common proceedings.
(2)  Any aggrieved person may file a complaint in the prescribed FORM–N with adequate copies to be served upon each
respondent with the Adjudicating Officer for compensation under Section 12, 14, 18 and 19 of the Act read with the Rule 38 and
Regulations made thereunder, save as those provided to be adjudicated by the Authority, which shall be accompanied by a fee
of Rs.5,000/- remitted through online. The aggrieved person has to submit his application along with supporting documents by
registered post or in person in office within 10 days from the date of filing on-line, in case of Tamil Nadu and 15 days in case of
Andaman & Nicobar Islands.
(3) The application shall be presented either in person by the applicant himself or through an authorized representative as
contemplated under Section 56 of the Act. Necessary vakalat or Memo of authorization duly attested with affixture of applicable

June 13, 2018]

Tamil  nadu  government  gazette

45

court fee stamp as well as Advocate Welfare Fund stamp, as the case may be, on it shall be filed.  And such authorization shall
contain the address of the representative with particulars enrolment No. or Registration No., e-mail id, mobile no. etc. for proper
communication. The original of such letter of authorization shall also be produced for verification at the time of filing for verification
and return.
(4) The applicant shall also pay the Authority a sum of Rs. 600/- through online towards postage charges:
		

Bank:  Indian Bank, CMDA Branch
Current Account No: 65430 57988

		

Name: Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (TNRERA)

		

IFSC Code: IDIB000I010
CHAPTER VII

11. Procedures before the Authority and Adjudicator:
     In respect of all complaints before the Authority and the Adjudicating Officer, the procedures mentioned below in this
Regulations No.12 to 17 upto chapter X shall be followed and adhered.
CHAPTER VIII
12. Presentation, Scrutiny and Numbering:
(a) Pagination of the complaint filed before the Authority/Adjudicating Officer shall be in continuous manner beginning
from the complaint along with annexures.             
(b) Initialing alteration: Every interlineations, eraser or correction or deletion in any complaint or document shall be
initialed by the party or his authorized representative.
(c)   Every complainant is required to affix his or her signature shall state his or her name in capitals near his or her
signature and initial or sign at the bottom of the each page.
13. Endorsement and Scrutiny:
(a) The person, in charge of the receipt of the complaint or any other documents, whenever any complaint is filed or any
other documents is received, would immediately affix the seal of the authority with date. At the time of receipt of complaint, it is the
duty of the concerned clerk to verify whether the requisite number of copies along with necessary index and on such receipt, the
concerned clerk will sign on the first page in the main sheet as well as in the copies and assign Current No. for every complaint
and pass it for scrutiny to the officer concerned.
(b) The scrutiny officer of the Authority shall, on receipt of the complaint from the Receiving branch, scrutinize the same
as expeditiously as possible but not beyond 7 working days from the date of receipt.
Provided if, for any reason, the scrutiny is not completed within the above period, the same shall be immediately reported
to the designated officer, who shall take prompt steps to complete the scrutiny and or extend the time.
(c) On scrutiny of the complaint, if it is found to be defective or incorrect in conformity with the provisions of the Act or
Rule or Regulations thereunder, the Authority will return the paper for compliance in the proper form granting 15 days time for the
complaints made in Tamil Nadu and 20 days for the complaints made in Andaman & Nicobar Islands or such time as the Authority
prescribes. If the complaint is not duly represented with all compliance within the time granted, it may be treated as a complaint
not in conformity and shall be posted before the Authority or the Adjudicating Officer as the case may be for dismissal for default.
In such event, the complaint fee shall be forfeited.  There shall be no bar for the complainant for filing afresh one after complying
the requirements only within a period of 90 days from the date of such dismissal.   
(d) Complaint fee paid through online with the complaint shall be entered immediately on the receipt in the Register and
the same should be initialed by the cashier or Accounts Officer and the Section Officer on every day. The official in charge of
Cash Section and Section Officer shall after verifying the entries in the prescribed Register along with D. Ds. put their initials in the
relevant columns in the said Register as token of acknowledgement.

46

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

(e) Court fee stamps affixed in the vakalat or Memorandum of Authorisation shall be checked and after cancellation of the
same with the seal of the Authority shall be accounted in the Court Fee Register.
14. Registration and Numbering:
      (a) Every complaint filed under Section 31 of the Act and under Rule 37 after checking and scrutiny shall be numbered
as Complaint No. and registered in the appropriate register maintained in this behalf.
(b)  Every complaint filed under Section 31 of the Act read with Section 12, 14, 18 and 19 of the Act and under Rule 38
after checking and scrutiny shall be numbered as Compensation Claim Petition No. (CCP. No.) and registered in the appropriate
register maintained in that behalf.
(c) Interlocutory Application filed along with the Complaint instituted or thereafter shall be numbered separately as
I.A.No.
CHAPTER IX
15. Notice and Service:
(a)  The Authority / the Adjudicating Officer shall issue Notice in Form – 9 to the respondent along with one copy of the
complaint by giving 15 days time in case of Tamil Nadu and 20 days in case of Andaman & Nicobar Islands or such time as
the Authority/the Adjudicating Officer prescribes for proper explanation under intimation to the complainant which serves as an
acknowledgement. On receipt of the Notice, the respondent should file the reply on or before the prescribed time limit with a copy
delivered to the complainant.  On receipt of the proper explanation from the respondent, the Authority/the Adjudicating Officer will
take up the hearing wherein both the complainant and the respondent will be called for. The Authority/the Adjudicating officer will
also take into consideration the plea of contest or not in that hearing and accordingly decide the matter granting time for enquiry.  
If the matter is settled amicably between the parties, the complainant and the respondent shall file a joint memo of
settlement with clear terms, on the basis of such terms the Authority / the Adjudicating Officer shall record the same and dispose the
complaint.  In failure of arriving compromise between the parties, enquiry shall be proceeded as per the provisions of the Act,
Rules and Regulations.
(b) If any person fails, neglects or refuses to appear in person or through his authorized representative as directed by the
Authority/the Adjudicating Officer, the Authority/the Adjudicating Officer shall have the power to proceed with the enquiry in the
absence of such person or persons after recording the reasons for doing so and appropriate decision will be taken by the Authority
on the basis of available documents and evidence on record.
16. Service of Process:
(1) Issue of notice: When a notice of complaint or interlocutory application issued by the Authority/the Adjudicating
Officer, copies of the same and other supporting documents filed therewith, if any, shall be served on the other side and with
acknowledgement.
(2) Whenever notice is ordered by private service, the complainant unless already served on the other side in advance,
shall arrange to serve the copy of complaint and other documents by registered post or courier service and file affidavit of service
with its proof of acknowledgement before the date fixed for hearing.
(3) Steps for issue fresh notice: If any notice is returned unserved in the circumstances not specified in the Rule or
Regulations, that fact and the reason thereof shall be notified immediately on the notice board of the Authority and also in the
website of the Authority. The complainant or his authorized representative shall within seven days from the date of such notification
take steps to serve the notice afresh.
(4) Consequence of failure to take steps for issue of fresh notice: Where, after a notice has been issued to the other
side, and returned unserved, and the complainant fails to take necessary steps within a period as ordered by the Authority/the
Adjudicating Officer from the date of return of the notice on the respondent(s), the case shall be posted for dismissal for non
prosecution.

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

47

(5) The Authority/the Adjudicating Officer shall take steps to serve notice to respondents by post as per the address given
in the complaint on payment made by the complainant. If the notice sent by the Authority/ the Adjudicator is not served for any
defect in the address or any other reason for more than two occasions, then the complainant shall be directed by the Authority/the
Adjudicator to take substituted service while making a publication in a vernacular daily in the place of address of the respondent
of the site or registered office or residence at his cost.  
(6) Appearance of parties:  The party who has engaged a legal practitioner or any other authorized representative to appear
for him before the Authority/the Adjudicating Officer shall not be entitled to be heard in person unless permitted by the Authority.
(7) Parties appearing before the Authority shall be properly dressed; and in case of Advocates with collar and
Advocate Coat.
CHAPTER X
17. Examination of Witness and Issue of Commissions:
(1) The Authority/the Adjudicating Officer may permit examination of witnesses only when it is deemed fit by the Authority/the
Adjudicating Officer and the summary procedure as provided in the Civil Procedure Code shall be followed.
(2) Numbering of Witnesses: The witness called by the complainant shall be numbered consecutively as CWs and those by
the respondent as RWs.
(3) Marking of documents: The documents when produced shall be marked as follows:
(i) if relied upon by the complainant’s side, they shall be numbered as “A” series;
(ii) if relied upon by the respondent’s side , they shall be numbered as “B” series;
(iii) any documents produced by the third party on summon by the Authority or any expert evidence or documents
produced at the request of the Authority or any Government documents / commission documents shall be marked “X” series;
(4) For the purpose of commission of examination of witnesses, any documents required from the Authority, a copy of such
documents shall be provided to the commission by the Authority.
CHAPTER XI
18. Authority’s Office, office hours and sittings and Language:
       (a) The Office of the Authority shall be situated at Chennai or such places as the Authority may decide from time to time.
The Authority may, by order, establish benches and its offices at other places within its jurisdiction as defined in Regulation 3.  
(b) The Authority shall follow the office timings and holidays as notified by the State Government in the
Tamil Nadu Government Gazette.
(c) The Authority may conduct its proceedings at the head office or at any other place within its jurisdiction as defined in
Regulation 3 on any working days and time as directed by the Chairperson.
19. Language of the Authority:
(a) The proceedings of the Authority shall be conducted in English, provided the Authority shall also allow any person to
plead or represent his case in Tamil (in Tamil Nadu) or in Hindi (in Andaman & Nicobar Islands).
(b) The Authority at its own discretion, may accept complaint or petition made in Tamil (in Tamil Nadu) or in Hindi
(in Andaman & Nicobar Islands).
(c) The Authority, at its sole discretion, may accept complaint or petitions made in any language other than in Tamil or
English, provided the same is to be accompanied by a translation thereof in English attested by a Notary.
    (d) Any Translation which is agreed to, by the parties to the proceedings or which any of the parties furnish, may be
accepted by the Authority as a true translation.

48

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

20. Seal of the Authority:
Any document requiring authentication by the Authority shall be issued under the seal of the Authority, and shall be signed by
the Officer authorized by the Chairperson in this behalf.
CHAPTER XII
21. Meetings of the Authority:
(1)  Chairperson shall preside over the meetings and conduct the business.
(2)   If the Chairperson for any reason is unable to attend a meeting of the Authority, any other member chosen by the
Members present amongst themselves at the meeting, shall preside over the meeting.
(3) All questions which come up before any meeting of the Authority shall be decided by a majority of votes by the
Members present and voting, and in the event of an equality of votes, the Chairperson or in his absence, the person presiding
shall have a second or casting vote.
Explanation: As far as the complaints filed under Section 31 of the Act are concerned, the same shall be proceeded with the
provision of Rule 37 and 38 read with regulations thereunder.
(4) With the permission of the Chairperson or other Member presiding over the meeting, as the case may be, urgent
questions may be added to the agenda at any time before the conclusion of the meeting, or any item on the agenda may be
deleted or carried over to a subsequent meeting.
(5) The meeting hours shall normally be within the office hours of the Authority unless the Chairperson decides to extend
the same in a particular case, on grounds of urgency.
(6) The Chairperson for the meeting of the Authority may, if he considered necessary, also invite any expert, qualified in
the matter to be discussed at any meeting, to attend any meeting of the Authority, with a view to facilitate meaningful discussion
and such expert may participate any proceedings of the meeting; but shall have no right to vote. Every expert invited to attend any
meeting of the Authority other than the Members, Officers or employees of the Authority, shall be entitled to a payment for each
meeting of the Authority attended by him as prescribed by the Authority from time to time.
(7) (a) Any member, who has a direct or indirect pecuniary or other interest in any matter including those relating to
immediate family, coming up for consideration in meeting of the Authority and he /she shall not take any part in any deliberation or
decision of the Authority, with respect of that matter.
    (b) For the purpose of this regulation, immediate family shall include wife or husband or son or daughter (whether
biological or adopted), parents, brothers or sisters or any person related to any of them by blood or marriage, whether they are
dependent on the such member or not.
(8) Any member who is found in violation to the principles laid out in sub-regulation (7) shall be liable to necessary action
as per the provisions of the Act and Rules made thereunder.
(9) The authority may from time to time appoint such committees or sub-committees consisting of such members and
other employees or officers or outside expert in that field as it deems fit, to advise the authority on such matters as may be
prescribed or specified and subject to such directions as the authority may give.
(10) If any doubt arises as to the interpretation of these regulation, the decision of the Authority shall be final and binding
on all concerned.
(11) (a) An Officer of the Authority designated by the Chairperson, shall record the minutes of the meetings and maintain
a register which will, amongst other things, contain the names and designation of Members and invitees present in the meeting.  
             (b) The decision taken in a meeting of the Authority shall be recorded in the minutes book in a clear and concise
manner, along with reasons. In case, the minutes record any statement/submission made by an invitee, a copy of the minutes
shall be sent to such invitee.
               (c) The recorded minutes of the meeting will be duly signed by all the Members present.

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

49

22. Orders of the Authority:
(1) The decision arrived at the Authority Meeting shall be duly signed by all the members present and copy of the same
shall be made available to the applicant.
(2) All orders and decisions shall be certified by an Officer empowered in this behalf by the Chairperson and shall bear
the official seal of the Authority and be communicated as expeditiously as possible from the date of passing thereof to all parties
in the proceeding.
(3) The Authority may pass such ad-interim or interim orders, as the Authority may consider appropriate at any stage of
any proceedings, having regard to the facts and circumstances of the case.
        (4) The Authority may, at any time, direct anyone or more Officers or any other person as the Authority considers
appropriate to study, investigate or furnish information with respect to any matter within the jurisdiction of the Authority under the
Act and the Rules.
23. Collection of Information:
(a) The Authority may issue such directions, for the purpose of collection of any information, particulars or documents
that the Authority considers necessary in connection with the discharge of its functions under the Act and the Rule.
(b) If any such report or information obtained appears to the Authority to be insufficient or inadequate, the Authority
or an Officer authorised for the purpose may give directions for further inquiry, report and furnishing of information.
(c) The Authority may direct such incidental, consequential and supplemental matters to be attended to which may
be considered relevant in connection with the above.
(d) If the report or information obtained in accordance with Regulation above or any part thereof is proposed to be
relied upon by the Authority for forming its opinion or view in any proceedings, the parties to the proceedings shall be given
a reasonable opportunity for filing objections and making submissions on such report or information.
24. Confidentiality:
(a)  The Authority shall appraise and determine whether any documents or evidence provided to it by any party and claimed
by that party to be of a confidential nature merits being withheld from disclosure to other parties as being confidential and shall
provide brief reasons in writing for arriving at its conclusion.
(b) If the Authority is of the view that the claim for confidentiality is justified the Authority may direct that the same be
not provided to such parties as the Authority may deem fit. However, the party claiming the confidentiality shall provide a brief
non-confidential summary of the substance of the documents found to be confidential and the import of the same.
(c) Notwithstanding the above, it shall be open to the Authority to take into consideration the contents of the documents found
to be confidential in arriving at its decision.
(d) The Authority may direct any person either to appear to give evidence or to produce any documents or books of accounts
and such documents or evidences produced may be ordered to be kept in the safe custody of any one of the officers of the
Authority.
CHAPTER XIII
25. Maintenance of Registers:
The following Registers shall be maintained and posted on a day to day basis by the officer authorised may, subject to any
order of the Chairperson, direct:
  (a) Register of Complaint: A complaint Register shall be kept by an officer authorized and it shall be written legibly. The
register in the main file shall contain a concise history of the complaint, the substance of the orders passed thereon and in
execution proceedings and it shall contain a complete record of all proceedings in execution of order or direction or rule and shall
be checked by the Section Officer and initialed once in a fortnight;

50

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

(b) Register of Interlocutory Application;
(c) Register of unnumbered Complaint;
(d) Register of Execution Petition;
CHAPTER XIV
26. Records of the Authority:
(1) Arrangement of Records: The records of complaint shall be divided into the following four parts and shall collated and
maintained:(a) Main file (Complaint);
(b) Interlocutory Application file;
(c) Process file; and
(d) Execution file;
(2) Contents of main file: The main file shall be kept in the following order and it shall be maintained as permanent record till
ordered to be destroyed under the Regulations:(a) Index;
(b) Complaint Copy;
(c) Counter or reply or objection, if any;
       (d) Documentary evidence;
(e) Oral evidence or proof of affidavit, Evidence taken; and
(f) Written arguments;
(3) Contents of process file: The process file shall contain the following items, namely:(a) Index;
(b) Vakalat or power of attorney or authorization letter;
(c) Summons and other processes and affidavits relating thereof;
(d) Applications for summoning witness;
(e) Letters calling records; and
(f) All other miscellaneous papers such as postal acknowledgements;
(4) Execution file: The execution file shall contain the following items, namely:(a) Index;
(b)  Copy of Minute Book wherein order or direction passed or decision taken;
(c)  Execution application;
(d)  All processes and other papers connected with such execution    proceedings;
(e)  Transmission of order to civil court, if ordered; and
(f)  Result of execution;
(5) File for interlocutory applications: For all interlocutory applications connected to an complaint there may be only one file
with a title page prefixed to it and immediately after the title page, the diary, the interlocutory applications, supporting affidavit, the
order sheet and all other documents shall be filed.
(6) Loss of record: Whenever, it is discovered that a record or portion of a record or a document on the file of a record is
missing, the loss shall be immediately reported in writing to the designated officer and he in turn shall report it to the
Chairperson.

June 13, 2018]

Tamil  nadu  government  gazette

51

(7) Destruction of record: (a) One copy of the entire registration file including note file and documents pertaining to the
registration of projects shall be kept as permanent record. The other copies of the same registration file shall be destroyed after a
period of 6 years from the date of registration.
(b) Record of the Authority, except permanent record, shall be ordered to be destroyed by the designated officer after
six years from the final conclusion of the proceedings and if any appeal is filed under section 44 of the Act, the same shall be
destroyed after 2 years from the date of disposal of the appeal.
(c) The destruction of such record shall be effected by tearing, so as to render it unlikely that the document so tearing
may be used against or destroying with the help of paper shredding machine.
(d) Entry regarding destruction: Entries regarding destruction shall be made in the relevant columns of the register in
Form No.
Explanation: For the purpose of Regulation 25 under Chapter XIII of the Regulations, permanent record shall include order,
complaint register, interlocutory application register and such other record, as may be ordered to be included by the Chairperson.

CHAPTER XV
27. Inspection of Record:
(1) Inspection of the Records: (a) The parties to any complaint or their legal representative may be allowed to inspect the
record of the case by making an application in Form-10 in writing to the designated officer and a fee prescribed therein and the
application shall be presented between 10.30 A.M. and 3.00 P.M. on any working day and two days before the date on which
inspection is sought, unless and otherwise permitted by the designated officer.
(2) Subject to such terms and conditions as may be prescribed by the Chairperson by a general or special order, a person
who is not a party to the proceeding, may also be allowed to inspect the proceedings after obtaining  permission in writing.
Provided that the inspection of records of a pending or decided case before the Authority shall be allowed only on the order
of the Authority.
(3) Inspection of records of a pending case shall not ordinarily be permitted on the date fixed for hearing of the case or on
the proceeding day.
(4) The fee prescribed shall be payable through online to the Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority at Chennai.
(5) On grant of permission for inspection of records, the Section Officer or any other officer authorized shall arrange to
procure the records of the case and allow inspection of such records on the date and time fixed by the designated officer between
10.30 A.M. and 12.30 P.M. and between 2.30 P.M and 4.30 P.M. in the presence of him or any officer authorized.
(6) The person inspecting the records shall not in any manner cause dislocation, mutilation, tampering to the records in the
course of inspection.
(7) The person inspecting the records shall not make any marking on any record or paper so inspected and taking notes, if
any, of the documents or records.  No electronic gadgets are allowed inside the record room. In the court hall or in any hearing
before the Authority or the Adjudicating Officer, no cellphone or any other electronic gadget can be used or operated.
(8) The person supervising the inspection, may at any time prohibit further inspection, if in his opinion, any of the records
are likely to be damaged in the process of inspection or the person inspecting the records has violated or attempted to violate the
provisions of these regulations and shall immediately make a report about the matter to the designated officer and seek further
orders from the designated officer and such notes shall be made in relevant column of the Inspection Register.
(9) The designated officer shall cause to maintain a Register of Records for the purpose of inspection of documents or
records and shall obtain therein the signature of the person making such inspection on the Register as well as on the application
on the conclusion of inspection.
(10) The Authority shall endeavour to make information involving public interest accessible and available to the public,
including, inter alia, through its website.

52

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

CHAPTER XVI
28. Discovery, Production and Return of Documents:
(1) Summoning, discovery and production of documents shall be regulated by  Section of 35 (2) of the Act and proviso (a)
and (b) of sub rule (1) of Rule 25 of Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority (Regulation & Development) Rules, 2017 read
with Rule 64 of Civil Rules of Practice as amended from time to time.
(2) Suo motu summoning of documents: Notwithstanding anything contained in these rules, the Authority may, suo motu,
issue summons/notices for production of documents or other documents in the custody of any court or public officer or any other
party.
(3) Return of documents: (a) An application for return of the documents produced shall be numbered. Such application shall
be filed with a notice to the parties who produced the documents. No such application shall be entertained after the destruction
of the records.
(4) The Authority may, at any time, direct return of documents produced subject to such conditions as it deems fit.
CHAPTER XVII
29. Certified Copies of Order:
(1) The authority shall, on such terms and conditions as the Authority considers appropriate, provide for supply of certified
copies of documents and papers available with the Authority to any person, applying in prescribed  Form (FORM-10), by making
cash payment of fee of  Rs.100/- per copy of the order containing up to a maximum of 10 pages. If the pages exceed ten, then for
every extra page per copy, a sum of Rs.2/- shall be paid. Payment shall be made at the cash counter of TNRERA.
(2) The parties to the proceedings are entitled to get one free copy of the order from the Authority / Adjudicating Officer either
by post or person.   Additional copies if required by the parties to the proceedings shall be provided on payment of fee as stipulated
supra.
(3) The Authority shall designate an Officer for ensuring timely response to requests received for supply of certified copies of
documents who shall endeavour to dispatch the certified copies of documents requested for as expeditiously as possible within a
period of 30 working days from the date of receipt of request.
CHAPTER XVIII
30. General Power to Amend / Rectify:
The Authority may, at any time and on such terms as to costs or otherwise, as it may think fit, remove any defect or error apparent on the facts of the record in any proceedings before it (including any clerical or arithmetical error in any order passed
by the Authority), only on an application filed by any one of the aggrieved party within 60 days from the date of the order.  The
Authority shall not pass any order on the said application if entertained without giving notice to others.
CHAPTER XIX
31. Power to Remove Difficulties:
       If any difficulty arises in giving effect to any of the provisions of the Regulations, the Authority may, by general or special
order, do anything not being inconsistent with the provisions of the Act or Rules made thereunder, which appears to be necessary
or expedient for the purpose of removing the difficulties.
CHAPTER XX
32. Saving of Inherent Power of the Authority:
1.

Nothing in the Regulations shall be deemed to limit or otherwise affect the inherent power of the Authority to make
such orders as may be necessary for meeting the ends of justice or to prevent the abuse of the process of the
Authority.

June 13, 2018]

Tamil  nadu  government  gazette

53

2.

Nothing in these Regulations shall bar the Authority from adopting in conformity with the provisions of the Act or Rules,
a procedure, which is at variance with any of the provisions of these Regulations including summary procedures, if the
Authority, in view of the special circumstance of a matter or class of matters and for reasons to be recorded in writing,
deems it necessary or expedient for so dealing with such a matter or class of matters.

3.

Nothing in the Regulations shall bar the Authority to deal with any matter or exercise any power under the Act or Rules
for which no regulations have been framed, and the Authority may deal with such matters, powers and functions in a
manner it thinks fit.

33. Continuance of Proceedings after Death, etc.,
a)

Where in a proceeding, any of the parties to the proceeding dies, the proceeding shall be continued and adjudicated
with other partners or successors-in-interest in case of individual, as in the case of an insolvent, the official receiver or
assignee, as in the case of a company under liquidation/winding up, the proceeding shall continue with, the executor,
administrator, liquidator or other legal representative of the party concerned, as the case may be.

b)

In case of death of any parties to the proceedings, the application for bringing up the successors-in–interest shall be
filed within 45 days if not filed within 45 days, the application shall be treated as abated.  

34. Extension or Abridgement of time prescribed:
The time prescribed by the Regulations or by order of the Authority for doing any act may be extended (whether it has
already expired or not) or abridged for sufficient reason by an order of the Authority subject to the provisions of the Act or the Rules.
35. Costs:
Subject to such condition and limitation as may be directed by the    Authority, the costs of and incidental to, all proceedings
shall be awarded at the discretion of the Authority.
36. Administrative Charges and Standard Fees:
The Authority may, by order, fix standard fees, to be levied on the promoters or real estate agents or allottees for inspection
of documents, certified copies of documents, the updating of website, database management and maintenance of the website.

		
		

S.KRISHNAN, 				
Principal Secretary to Government			
Housing and Urban Development Department.

54

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

FORM 1
(See Regulation 7)
ARCHITECT ’S CERTIFICATE (On Letter Head)
(To be submitted at the time of Registration of Project and for withdrawal of Money from Designated Account)
Date:
To
(Name & Address of Promoter).
Subject:

Certificate of percentage of Completion of Construction Work of		 _____No. of Building(s) _________
Block(s) of the
_Phase of the Project (TNRERA Registration Number______________________)
situated on the Survey no. / Plot no.____________demarcated by its boundaries (latitude and longitude of the end
points)_____
to the North
____to the South ______
to the East
to the West of Division
sq.mts. area being
_______________Village ____ Taluk
______District __PIN measuring
developed by (Promoter’s Name)
______________.

Sir,
I/We________
have undertaken assignment as Architect of certifying percentage of Completion of Construction Work
of the Building(s)/_________Block(s) of the______
Phase of the Project, situated on the Survey no./ Plot no.
_______
Taluk
_____________District____________
PIN______________
of Division____ ___ Village ___
measuring
______________________ sq.mts. area being developed by (Promoter’s Name)
____as per the
approved plan.
1.

Following technical professionals are appointed by Owner/Promoter: (as applicable)
(i)

M/s./Thiru/Tmt._

as Engineer

(ii)

M/s./Thiru/Tmt._

as Structural Consultant

(iii)

M/s./Thiru/Tmt._

as MEP Consultant

(iv)

M/s./Thiru/Tmt._

as Site Supervisor/Clerk of Works

Based on site inspection by undersigned on
_____date and with respect to each of the Building/Block or of the
plots as the case may be of the aforesaid Real Estate Project, I certify that as on the date of this certificate, the p ercentage of
w ork done for each of the building/Block of the Real Estate Project as registered vide number____
under TNRERA is
as per table A herein below. The percentage of the work executed with respect to each of the activity of the entire phase is
detailed in Table A and B.
Table – A
Building/Block Number

Sl. No.
1

(to be prepared separately for each Building/Block of the Project)

Tasks/Activity
Excavation

2

number of Basement(s) and Plinth

3

number of Podiums

4

Stilt Floor

Percentage of work done

June 13, 2018]

Tamil  nadu  government  gazette

5
6

55

number of Slabs of Super Structure
Internal walls, Internal Plaster, Floorings within Flats/
Premises, Doors and Windows to each of the Flat/
Premises

7

Sanitary Fittings within the Flat/Premises

8

Staircases, Lifts Wells and Lobbies at each Floor
level connecting Staircases and Lifts, Overhead and
Underground Water Tanks

9

The external plumbing and external plaster,elevation,
completion of terraces with waterproofing of the
Building/Block/Tower.

10

Installation of lifts, water pumps, Fire Fighting Fittings
and Equipment as per CFO NOC, Electrical fittings
to Common Areas, electro, mechanical equipment,
compliance to conditions of environment/CRZ NOC,
Finishing to entrance lobby/s, plinth protection,
paving of areas appurtenant to Building/Block/Tower,
Compound Wall and all other requirements as may be
required to obtain Completion Certificate.

TABLE- B
Internal & External Development Works in respect of the entire Registered Phase

Sl.No.

Common areas and Facilities Amenities

1

Internal Roads & Footpaths

2

Water Supply

3

Sewerage (chamber, lines, Septic Tank, STP)

4

Storm Water Drains

5

Landscaping & Tree Planting

6

Street Lighting

7

Community Buildings

8

Treatment and disposal of sewage and sullage
water /STP

9

Solid Waste Management & Disposal

10

Water Conservation, Rain
Harvesting , Percolating Well/Pit

Water

Proposed
(Yes/No)

Percentage of
Work Done

Remarks

56

Tamil nadu government gazette	
11

Energy Management

12

Fire Protection and Fire Safety Requirements

13

Electrical Meter
Receiving Station

14

Others (Option to Add more)

Room,

[Part  III—Sec. 2

Sub‐station,

Yours Faithfully,
Signature

&

Name

(IN

BLOCK

LETTERS)

Council of Architects (CoA) Registration No. CA/

with

Stamp

of

Architect

/

Council of Architects (CoA) Registration valid till (Date)
FORM – 2
(See Regulation 7)
ENGINEER’ S CERTIFICATE (On Letter Head)
(To be submitted at the time of Registration of Project and for withdrawal of Money from Designated
Account – Project wise)
Date:
To
(Name & Address of Promoter)
Subject: Certificate of Cost Incurred for Development of (Project Name
) for Construction of
building(s)
)
Wing(s) of the		
phase or for the plotted project, as the case may be, (TNRERA Registration Number
situated on the Plot n o . / Survey no./R.S. no./T.S. no., Block no., Village		
demarcated
by
its
boundaries (latitude and longitude of the end points)
to the North		
to the South		
to the East
to the West of
Village		
Taluk
District
PIN
measuring
sq.mts. area being developed by (Promoter)
Ref: TNRERA Registration Number
Sir,
I/We 		
have undertaken assignment of certifying Estimated Cost for the Real Estate Project proposed to
be registered under TNRERA, being		
Building(s)/
Block(s) of the
Phase or for the plots of the plotted
project as the case may be, situated on the plot no./Survey no./ RS. no./TS. no.
of Division		
Village
Taluk		
District______PIN
measuring		
sq.mts. area being developed by (Owner/Promoter).
1.

Following technical professionals are appointed by Owner/Promoter: (as applicable)
(i)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt

as Architect

(ii)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt

as Structural Consultant

(iii)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt

as MEP Consultant

(iv)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt

as Quantity Surveyor*

June 13, 2018]

Tamil  nadu  government  gazette

57

2.

We have estimated the cost of the completion v to obtain Occupation Certificate/Completion Certificate, of the Civil,
MEP and Allied works, of the Building(s) of the project. Our estimated cost calculations are based on the Drawing/Plans
made available to us for the project under reference by the Developer and Consultants and the Schedule of items and
quantity for the entire work as calculated by ______quantity Surveyor* appointed by Developer/Engineer and the
site inspection carried out by us.

3.

We estimate total Estimated Cost of completion of the building(s) of the aforesaid project under reference as Rs.
_______(Total of Table A and B). The estimated total Cost of Project is with reference to the Civil, MEP and allied
works required to be completed for the purpose of obtaining completion certificate for the building(s) from the 		
Competent Authority under whose jurisdiction the aforesaid project is being implemented.

4.

Based on site inspection by undersigned on
date, the Estimated Cost Incurred till date is calculated
at Rs.
(Total of Table A and B). The amount of Estimated Cost Incurred is
calculated on the base of amount of total Estimated Cost.

5.

The Balance Cost of Completion of the Civil, MEP and Allied works of the Building(s) of the subject project to obtain
Completion Certificate from		(Competent Authority) is
estimated at Rs.
(Total of Table A and B).

6.

I certify that the Cost of the Civil, MEP and allied work for the aforesaid Project as completed on the date of this
certificate is as given in Table A and B below;
TABLE – A
Building/Block bearing Number

or called

(to be prepared separately for each Building / Block of the Real Estate Project)

Sl. No.

Particulars

Amounts (in Rs.)

1

Total Estimated Cost of the building/block as on
Registration is

2

Cost incurred as on

3

Work done in Percentage (as Percentage of the estimated cost)

4

Balance Cost to be Incurred (Based on Estimated Cost)

5

Cost Incurred on Additional/Extra Items as on ___
included in the Estimated Cost (Table –C)

date

of

not

58

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

TABLE – B
Internal & External Development Works in Respect of the entire Registered Phase

Sl. No.

Particulars

Amounts (in Rs.)

1

Total Estimated Cost of the Internal and External
Development Works including amenities and Facilities in
the layout as on
date of Registration is

2

Cost incurred as on

3

Work done in Percentage (as Percentage of the estimated
cost)

4

Balance Cost to be incurred (Based on Estimated
Cost)

5

Cost incurred on Additional/Extra Items as on __
not included in the Estimated Cost (Table –C)

Yours Faithfully,
Signature & Name (IN BLOCK LETTERS) with Stamp of Engineer Local Body license
no. if any
Local Body License no. valid till (Date)
*Note
1.

The scope of work is to complete entire Real Estate Project as per drawings approved from time to time so as to obtain
Completion Certificate.

2.

(*) Quantity Survey can be done by office of Engineer or can be done by an independent Quantity Surveyor, whose
certificate of quantity calculated can be relied upon by the Engineer. In case of independent quantity surveyor being
appointed by Promoter, the name has to be mentioned at the place marked (*) and in case quantity are being calculated
by office of Engineer, the name of the person in the office of Engineer, who is responsible for the quantity calculated
should be mentioned at the place marked (*).

3.

The estimated cost includes all labour, material, equipment and machinery required to carry out entire work.

4.

As this is an estimated cost, any deviation in quantity required for development of the Real Estate Project will result in
amendment of the cost incurred/to be incurred.

5.

All components of work with specifications are indicative and not exhaustive.
Table –C
List of Extra/Additional Items executed with Cost
(Which were not part of the original Estimate of Total Cost)

June 13, 2018]

Tamil  nadu  government  gazette

59

FORM-3
(See Regulation 7)
CHARTERED ACCOUNTANT’S CERTIFICATE (On Letter Head)
(for registration of a project and subsequent withdrawl of money)
Cost of Real Estate Project TN RERA Registration Number

Amount (in Rs.)
Sl.No.
1

Particulars
(I)

Land Cost:
a. Cost of Land or Development Rights, lease Premium,
lease rent, interest cost incurred or payable on Land
Cost and legal cost
b. Amount of Premium payable to obtain development
rights, FSI, additional FSI, and any other incentive
under DR from Local Authority or State Government or
any Statutory Authority
c. Acquisition cost of TDR (if any)
d. Amounts payable to State Government or competent
authority or any other statutory authority of the State
or Central Government towards stamp duty, transfer
charges, registration fees etc. and
e. Land Premium payable as per annual statement of
rates (ASR) for redevelopment of land owned by
Public Authorities.
f. Under Redevelopment / Rehabilitation Scheme:
(i) Estimated construction cost of redeveloped / rehab
building including site development and infrastructure
for the same as certified by Engineer (Column‐A)
(ii) Actual Cost of construction of redeveloped / rehab
building incurred as per the books of accounts as
verified by the CA (Column‐B)

Estimated
(Column‐A)

Incurred & Paid
(Column‐B)

60

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

Note: (for total cost of construction incurred, Minimum of (i) or
(ii) is to be considered)
(iii) Cost towards clearance of land of all or any encumbrances
including cost of removal of legal/illegal occupants, cost for
providing temporary transit accommodation or rent in lieu
of Transit Accommodation, overhead cost.
(iv) Fees, charges and security deposits or maintenance deposit,
or any amount whatsoever payable to any authorities
towards and in project of rehabilitation.
Sub - Total of LAND COST
Amount (in Rs.)
Estimated
(Column‐A)

(II) Development Cost/Cost of Construction:
a. (i) Estimated Cost of Construction as certified by Engineer
(Column ‐ A)
(ii) Actual Cost of Construction incurred and paid as per the
books of accounts as verified by the CA (Column ‐ B)
Note: (for adding to total cost of construction incurred,
Minimum of (i) or (ii) is to be considered)
(iii) on‐site expenditure for development of entire
project excluding cost of construction as per (i) or (ii)
above, i.e. salaries, consultants fees, site overheads,
development works, cost of services (including water,
electricity, sewerage, drainage, layout roads etc.), cost
of machineries and equipment including its hire and
maintenance costs, consumables etc. All costs directly
incurred to complete the construction of the entire
phase of the project registered.
b. Payment of Taxes, cess, fees, charges, premiums, interest
etc. to any Statutory Authority.
c. Interest payable to financial institutions, scheduled banks,
non‐banking financial institution on construction funding
or money borrowed for construction:
Sub ‐ Total of = Development Cost

Incurred &
Paid
(Column‐B)

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

2.

Total Estimated Cost of the Real Estate Project (1(I) + 1 (II)) of
Estimated Column –A

3.

Total Cost Incurred and Paid of the Real Estate Project (1(I) + 1 (II)) of
Incurred and Paid Column - B

4.

Percentage of completion of Construction Work

61

(as per Project Architect’s Certificate on completion of project)                                       %
5.

Proportion of the Cost incurred and paid on Land Cost and Construction Cost to the Total Estimated Cost
(Sl. No. 3/2)                                           %

6.

Amount which can be withdrawn from the Designated Account Total Estimated Cost x Proportion of cost incurred and
paid (Sl. number 2 x Sl. number 5)

7.

Less: Amount withdrawn till date of this certificate as per the Books of Accounts and Bank Statement

8.

Net Amount which can be withdrawn from the Designated Bank Account under this certificate

Details of RERA Account:

Bank Name
Branch Name
Account No.
IFSC Code
Opening Balance (as on

)

Deposit during the period
Withdrawals during the period
Closing Balance (as on

)

This  certificate  is  being  issued  for  RERA  compliance  for  the  Company  (Promoter’s  Name
and
Project
Name
) and is based on the records and documents produced before me and explanations provided to me by the
management of the Company; based on the verification of books of accounts till (date)________.
Yours Faithfully,
Name and Signature of Chartered Accountant with Stamp
For (Name of CA Firm)
Partner / Proprietor
(Membership Number......................)

62

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

(ADDITIONAL INFORMATION)
1.

Estimated Balance Cost to complete the Real Estate Project  
(Difference of Total Estimated Project cost less Cost incurred)

2.

Balance amount of receivables from booked apartments as per Annexure-A to this certificate
(as certified by Chartered Accountant as verified from the records and books of Accounts)

3.

(i)

Balance Unbooked area (to be certified by Management and to be verified by CA from the
records and books of accounts)

(ii)

Estimated amount of sales proceeds in respect of unbooked apartments
as per Annexure-A to this certificate.

4.

Estimated receivables of the project. Sum of 2 + 3 (ii)

5.

Amount to be deposited in Designated Account – 70% or 100% If 4 is greater than 1, then 70% of the
balance receivables of the project will be deposited in designated Account. If 4 is lesser than 1, then 100%
of the balance receivables of Ongoing project will be deposited in designated Account.

%

This certificate is being issued for RERA compliance for the Company (Promoter’s Name
_and Project
Name
) and is based on the records and documents produced before me and explanations provided to
me by the management of the Company; based on the verification of books of accounts till (date)
.
Yours Faithfully,
Name and Signature of Chartered Accountant with Stamp For (Name of CA firm)
Partner / Proprietor
(Membership Number......................)
Annexure-A
Statement for calculation of Receivables from the Sales of the Ongoing Real Estate Project:
Booked Inventory
Sl.No.

Block/ Type/ Flat / Bungalow Carpet Area
Area of
Unit Amount
Received
Bungalow/
/ Office / Plot (in Sq. Mts.)
exclusive
Consideration as per
Amount
Category (as per
No.
balcony /
Agreement (as per
Form 1)
verandah (Sq. Clause 1(b) of the Model
Mts.)
Form of Agreement to
be entered between
Promoter and
Allottee(s))

Total Proposed
No. of Covered Parking
No. of Open Parking

Total Booked

Balance
Amount

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

63

(Unbooked Inventory Valuation)
Of the Residential/commercial premises Rs.
Sl.
No.

Block / Type (as
per Form 1)

per Sq.Mts.

Flat / Office / Carpet Area (in Sq. Area of exclusive balcony /
Plot No.
Mts.)
verandah (Sq. Mts.)

Estimated Amount of Sale
Proceeds

FORM-4
ARCHITECT ’S CERTIFICATE
(To be issued on completion of each of the Building/Block/Tower)
Date:
To
(Name & Address of Promoter)
Subject:

Certificate of Completion of Construction Work of

Building/

Block of

the Building of the Project (TNRERA Registration Number
) situated on the Plot bearing
Survey no./Plot no./Door No.
demarcated by its boundaries (latitude and longitude of the end
points)
to
the
North
to the South
to the East
to the West of Division
Village
Taluk
District       
PIN
measuring
sq.mts. area being developed by (Promoter’s Name)		
Sir,
I/W
have undertaken assignment as Architect/Engineer of certifying completion of Construction Work of
Building/Block/Tower		
of the Building situated on the plot No./Survey no./ Door no		
of Division
Village
Taluk
District
PIN
measuring
sq.mts.
area being developed by (Promoter’s Name)
2.

Following technical professionals are appointed by Owner/Promoter: (as applicable)

3.

(i)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt.

as Architect/Engineer

(ii)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt.

as Structural Consultant

(iii)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt.

as MEP Consultant

(iv)

M/s/Thiru/Tmt.

as Site Supervisor/Clerk of Works

Based

on

Completion

Certificate

received

from

Structural

Engineer

and

the best of my/our knowledge, I/We hereby certify that
Block of the Building has been completed in all aspects. The
granted Completion Certificate bearing number

Site

Supervisor

and

to

Building/
Building/

dated

Authority) .
Yours Faithfully,
Signature & Name (IN BLOCK LETTERS) of L.S/Architect with (License No.....................)

Block of the Building is
by

(Competent

64

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

Form-5
Certificate by Architect / Licensed Surveyor
(Certificate for the purpose of completion of Layout/ Sub-Division Project)
Address of the Project:___________________________________________________________________________
__________________________________________________________________________________________________
_____________________________________________________________________________________________________

Date: ________________
__________________________ (Name of the Promoter)

__________________________ (Address of the Promoter)

Subject: Certificate for _________________________ (Name of the project)
Ref: ____________________________ (TNRERA Registration Number)
Sir,
I, _________________ (name   of   the   Architect/   Licensed Surveyor) having License No. ________________
had undertaken assignment as an Architect/ Licensed Surveyor     for     the     assessment     and     verification     of    
development

of

work

done at _______________(name of the project) situated on the Plot bearing Survey no./

Plot no.­­­­­­­­­­­­­­­______________ demarcated by its boundaries (latitude and longitude of the end points) _____________to the
North_____________ to the South______________ to the East_______________ to the West of Division____________
Village_________Taluk _______________ District ______________ measuring ______________ sq. mts. Being
developed by __________________ (Name of the Promoter).
Based on site inspection carried out by me with respect to each of the plot(s) of the aforesaid Layout/ Sub-Division
Project, I certify that as on date of this certificate, the project has been developed and completed in all respects as per
the Plotting layout plan sanctioned by _________________ (Name of the sanctioned authority) vide Planning Permission
No. _________________ dated______________ including all amenities and facilities as committed by the promoter to
the allottes.
Yours Faithfully,
Stamp, Signature & Name (IN BLOCK LETTERS) of Architect/ Licensed Surveyor with (Reg. License
No______________________)

Enclosed:
Photographs of all sides of site

June 13, 2018]

Tamil  nadu  government  gazette

65

Form-6
[Section 4(2)(I)(D)]
Format for furnishing a certificate from the bank in their letter pad duly signed by the competent authority with
official seal for maintaining an account exclusively for the project concerned

To,
Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority,
No.1A, 1st Floor,
Gandhi Irwin Bridge Road,
Egmore,
Chennai – 600008.
Sir,
Subject:

TNRERA –

Application

for

project

registration

–

Construction

a t  

opening of an separate account for the project – certificate issued – Reg.
_____
With reference  to  the  application  for  registration  of  projects 		
certified  that Thiru. / M/s.

(Project name),   it is

has / have opened an account   /   maintaining an account in

account no.		

exclusively for the project approved in Planning

.  In compliance of sub-clause (D) of clause (l) of sub-section
Permission approved Letter No.		
(2) of section 4 of the Act,

has / have agreed to deposit 70% of the amount collected from

the allottees from time to time to the above account.

Office Seal  :
Date

:

   

Signature of the Competent Authority

66

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

FORM 7
On the letter head of Chartered Accountant (who is Statutory Auditor of the promoter’s company/firm)
ANNUAL REFPORT ON STATEMENT OF ACCOUNTS
To (NAME & ADDRESS OF PROMOTER)

Subject: Report on Statement of Accounts on project fund utilization and withdrawal by (Promoter) for the period
from______ to
1.

with respect to TNRERA Regn. Number

This certificate is issued in accordance with the provisions of the Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Act,

2016 read along with the Tamil Nadu Real Estate (Regulation and Development) Rules, 2017.
2.

I/We have obtained all necessary information and explanation from the Company, during the course of our audit,

which in my/our opinion are necessary for the purpose of this certificate.
3.

I/We hereby confirm that I/We have examined the prescribed registers, books and documents and the relevant

records of (Promoter) for the period ended

and hereby certify that:

i.

M/s.__ (Promoter) have completed

% of the project titled		

(Name)

TNRERA

Regn.

No

located at

ii.

Amount collected during the year for this project is Rs.		 and amounts collected till date is Rs. 		

		
iii.

Amount withdrawn during the year for this project is Rs.		

and amount withdrawn till date is Rs.

4.

I/We certify that the (Name of Promoter) has utilized the amounts collected for 		

project

has

been

in

accordance with the proportion to the percentage of completion of the project. (If not, please specify the amount withdrawn
in excess of eligible amount or any other exceptions)

		

(Signature and Stamps/Seal of the Signatory CA)

Name of the Signatory:
Place:

Full Address

Date:

Membership No.:
Contact No.:

E mail

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

67

Form 8
(See Regulation 9)
BEFORE THE TAMIL NADU REAL ESTATE REGULATORY AUTHORITY
Authorisation Form

Complaint No./

.

In the matter of

_________________________________ Petitioner

versus
________________________________ Respondent(s)

Memo of Authorisation

I/We,

_______________

the

petitioner/respondent

above

named

do

hereby

nominate,

appoint

and

constitute______________________ to act, plead and appear on my/our behalf in the aforesaid matter.

IN WITNESS WHEREOF I/We have set and subscribed my/our hands to this writing on this_____________day
of_________________
Place:

							Signature

(Petitioner/Respondent)

Date:
Address for Correspondence
									I/We accept_____________________

68

Tamil nadu government gazette	

[Part  III—Sec. 2

Form 9
[See Regulation 15(a)]
Notice of Hearing

Office of Tamil Nadu Real Estate
Regulatory Authority
Date:

Sub: Complaint No.______________ filed by Thiru./Tmt ___________________

Sir/Madam,
Whereas the Complainant/s above named has / have filed the complaint against respondents for the relief
prayed therein. A copy of complaint along with documents filed by the complainant is hereby served upon you.
You are hereby directed to present either in person or through your authorized representative / Advocate
before the Authority on______________at______________to submit your reply / objections, if any, failing which
the matter shall be proceeded further and appropriate decision will be taken on the basis of available documents and
evidence on record.

Sd/-

									

To

All Respondents
______________
.

The Designated Officer
TNRERA.

June 13, 2018]

Tamil nadu government gazette	

69

Form 10
[See Regulation 27 & 29]
BEFORE THE TAMIL NADU REAL ESTATE REGULATORY AUTHORITY
Application for inspection/obtaining copies of documents/records
I hereby apply for grant of permission to inspect/obtain copies of the following documents/records in the above case. The
details are as follows:
1.

Name & Address of the person seeking permission to inspect/obtain copies of the documents/records.

2.

Whether he is party to the case or he is the authorised representative of any party. (Furnish necessary particulars).

3.

Details of papers/documents sought to be inspected/copies required.

4.

Date and duration of the inspection sought.

5.

The amount of fee payable (as per relevant Regulations) and the mode of payment.

Place:

Date:

Signature

Office Use

Granted inspection on

Granted copies of documents on

/Rejected

/ Rejected

Nominee of the Authority
__________________________________________________________

Egmore, Chennai-600 008,
7th June 2018.

S. KRISHNAN, 				
Principal Secretary to Government,			
Housing and Urban Development Department.

Chairperson,
			
Tamil Nadu Real Estate Regulatory Authority.



The Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendments ) Act, 2008

Act 2 of 2009

Keyword(s):
Registration

Amendments appended: 36 of 2009, 28 of 2012, 29 of 2012, 24 of 2022, 41 of 2022

DISCLAIMER: This document is being furnished to you for your information by PRS
Legislative Research (PRS). The contents of this document have been obtained from sources
PRS believes to be reliable. These contents have not been independently verified, and PRS
makes no representation or warranty as to the accuracy, completeness or correctness. In
some cases the Principal Act and/or Amendment Act may not be available. Principal Acts
may or may not include subsequent amendments. For authoritative text, please contact the
relevant state department concerned or refer to the latest government publication or the
gazette notification. Any person using this material should take their own professional and
legal advice before acting on any information contained in this document. PRS or any persons
connected with it do not accept any liability arising from the use of this document. PRS or any
persons connected with it shall not be in any way responsible for any loss, damage, or distress
to any person on account of any action taken or not taken on the basis of this document.

©
[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2009-11.
[Price: Re. 0.80 Paise.

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
2009

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
No. 34]

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

CHENNAI, THURSDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2009
Thai 23, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2040

Part IV—Section 2
Tamil Nadu Acts and Ordinances

The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent of the
President on the 29th January 2009 and is hereby published for general information:—
ACT No. 2 OF 2009.
An Act further to amend the Registration Act, 1908, in its application
to the State of Tamil Nadu.
BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the Fifty-ninth year
of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2008.
(2) It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.
Central Act
XVI of 1908.

2. For section 22-A of the Registration Act, 1908, the following section shall be
substituted, namely:—
“ 22-A. Refusal to register certain documents .—Notwithstanding anything contained
in this Act, the registering officer shall refuse to register any of the following documents,
namely:—
(1) instrument relating to the transfer of immovable properties by way of sale, gift,
mortgage, exchange or lease,—

Tamil Nadu Act
35 of 1972.
Tamil Nadu Act
22 of 1959.
Tamil Nadu
Act XV of
1958.

(i) belonging to the State Government or the local authority or Chennai
Metropolitan Development Authority established under section 9-A of the Tamil Nadu
Town and Country Planning Act, 1971;
(ii) belonging to, or given or endowed for the purpose of, any religious institution
to which the Tamil Nadu Hindu Religious and Charitable Endowments Act, 1959
is applicable;
(iii) donated for Bhoodan Yagna and vested in the Tamil Nadu State Bhoodan
Yagna Board established under section 3 of the Tamil Nadu Bhoodan Yagna Act, 1958; or

DTP—IV-2 Ex. (34)

[3]

Short title,
extent and
commencement.

Substitution of
section 22-A.

4

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT4GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(iv) of Wakfs which are under the superintendence of the Tamil Nadu Wakf
Board established under the Wakf Act, 1995,

Central Act
43 of 1995.

unless a sanction in this regard issued by the competent authority as provided under the
relevant Act or in the absence of any such authority, an authority so authorised by the State
Government for this purpose, is produced before the registering officer;
(2) instrument relating to the transfer of ownership of lands converted as house sites
without the permission for development of such land from planning authority concerned:
Provided that the house sites without such permission may be registered if it is
shown that the same house site has been previously registered as house site.
Explanation I.—For the purpose of this section ‘local authority’ means,—
(i) any Municipal Corporation constituted under any law for the time being
in force; or
(ii) a Municipal Council constituted under the Tamil Nadu District Municipalities
Act, 1920 ; or

Tamil Nadu Act
V of 1920.

(iii) a Panchayat Union Council or a Village Panchayat constituted under the
Tamil Nadu Panchayats Act, 1994 ; or

Tamil Nadu Act
21 of 1994.

(iv) any other Municipal Corporation, that may be constituted under any law for
the time being in force.
Explanation II.—For the purpose of this section ‘planning authority’ means the
authority constituted under section 11 of, and includes the Chennai Metropolitan
Development Authority established under section 9-A of the Tamil Nadu Town and Country
Planning Act, 1971;

Tamil Nadu Act
35 of 1972.

(3) instrument relating to cancellation of sale deeds without the consent of the
person claiming under the said sale deed.”.

(By order of the Governor)

S. DHEENADHAYALAN,
Secretary to Government,
Law Department.

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE PRINCIPAL SECRETARY TO GOVERNMENT AND
DIRECTOR OF STATIONERY AND PRINTING, CHENNAI ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

©

[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2009-11.
[R. Dis. No. 197/2009.
[Price: Re. 0.80 Paise.

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

2009

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
No. 295]

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

CHENNAI, THURSDAY, NOVEMBER 19, 2009
Karthigai 3, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2040

Part IV—Section 2
Tamil Nadu Acts and Ordinances

The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent of the
President on the 12th November 2009 and is hereby published for general
information:—
ACT No. 36 OF 2009
An Act further to amend the Registration Act, 1908, in its application
to the State of Tamil Nadu.
BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu
Year of the Republic of India as follows:—

in the Sixtieth

1. (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2009.
(2) It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.

Short title,
extent and
commencement.

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government may, by
notification, appoint.
Central Act
XVI of 1908.

2. In section 89 of the Registration Act, 1908, after sub-section (2A), the following
sub-section shall be added, namely:—
“(2B) The State Government passing an order for effecting or raising an
ad-interim attachment of immovable property under the Tamil Nadu Protection of Interest
of Depositors (in Financial Establishments) Act, 1997 (Tamil Nadu Act 44 of 1997) shall
send a copy of such order together with the memorandum giving the full details of the
property to the registering officer within the local limits of whose jurisdiction the whole
or any part of the said immovable property is situate and such registering officer shall
file the copy of such order in Book No. 1 or get it scanned.”.
(By order of the Governor)
S. DHEENADHAYALAN,
Secretary to Government,
Law Department.

IV-2 Ex. (295)

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE DIRECTOR OF STATIONERY AND PRINTING, CHENNAI
ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

[ 135 ]

Amendment to
section 89.

©

[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2012-14.
[R. Dis. No. 197/2009.
[Price: Re. 0.80 Paise.

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

2012

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
No. 173]

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

CHENNAI, THURSDAY, JUNE 21, 2012
Aani 7, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2043

Part IV—Section 2
Tamil Nadu Acts and Ordinances

The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent of the
Governor on the 20th June 2012 and is hereby published for general information:—
ACT No. 28 OF 2012.
An Act to amend the Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2008.

BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment)
Amendment Act, 2012.

Short title and
commencement.

(2) It shall come into force at once.
Tamil Nadu
Act 2 of
2009.

2. In section 1 of the Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment) Act, 2008,
in sub-section (3), after the expression “by notification, appoint”, the expression
“and different dates may be appointed for different provisions of this Act” shall
be inserted.
(By order of the Governor)

G. JAYACHANDRAN,
Secretary to Government,
Law Department.

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE DIRECTOR OF STATIONERY AND PRINTING, CHENNAI
ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

DTP IV-2 Ex. (173)

[ 201 ]

Amendment of
section 1.

©

[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2012-14.
[R. Dis. No. 197/2009.
[Price: Re. 0.80 Paise.

GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
2012

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
No. 308]

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

CHENNAI, FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 2, 2012
Aippasi 17, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2043

Part IV—Section 2
Tamil Nadu Acts and Ordinances
The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the assent of the
President on the 24th October 2012 is hereby published for general information:ACT No. 29 OF 2012.
An Act further to amend the Registration Act, 1908
application to the State of Tamil Nadu.

in its

BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Sixty-third Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Tamil Nadu Amendment)
Act, 2012.
(2) It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.

Short title,
extent and
commencement.

(3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government
may, by notification, appoint.
Central Act
XVI of
1908.

2. In section 17 of the Registration Act, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as
the principal Act),—
(1) in sub-section (1), for clause (f), the following clauses shall be
substituted, namely:—
“(f) instruments of agreement relating to construction of building as
referred to in clause (i) under Article 5 of Schedule I to the Indian Stamp
Act, 1899 (Central Act II of 1899);
(g) instruments of agreement relating to sale of immovable property
of the value of one hundred rupees and upwards;
(h) instruments of Power of Attorney relating to immovable property
other than those executed outside India;
(i) instruments evidencing an agreement relating to the deposit of
title deeds:”;
(2) in sub-section (2), the Explanation

DTP IV-2 Ex. (308)—1

[249]

shall be omitted.

Amendment of
section 17.

250
Amendment of
section 28.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
3.

In

section 28 of the principal Act,—

(1) in clause (a), for the expression “clauses (a), (b), (c), (d) and (e),”
the expression “clauses (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f), (g), (h) and (i)” shall be
substituted;
(2) to clause (a), as so amended, the following proviso shall be added,
namely:-

Insertion of
new section
34-B.

“Provided that every document mentioned in clause (h) of
sub-section (1) of section 17 may also be presented for registration in the
office of the Sub-Registrar within whose jurisdiction the principal ordinarily
resides;”.
4. After section 34-A of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—
“34-B. Procedure for Registration of document of Power of Attorney
relating to immovable property.—Subject to the provisions of this Act, no
document of Power of Attorney relating to immovable property shall be registered,
unless passport size photographs and finger prints of the principal, the agent
and of the identifying witnesses are affixed to the document and the agent
has also signed such document.”.

Amendment of
section 50.

Insertion of
new section
64-A.

5. In section 50 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), for the expression
“clauses (a), (b), (c) and (d) of section 17”, the expression “clauses (a), (b),
(c), (d), (f), (g), (h) and (i) of section 17” shall be substituted.
6. After section 64 of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—
“64-A. Procedure where instrument of Power of Attorney presented in office
of Sub-Registrar relates to immovable property not situate in sub-district.—
Every Sub-Registrar on registering an instrument of Power of Attorney including
instrument of revocation or cancellation of such Power of Attorney relating to
immovable property not situate in his own sub-district, shall make a copy and
send the same together with a copy of the map or plan (if any) mentioned
in section 21, to every other Sub-Registrar in whose sub-district the whole
or any part of such property is situate and such Sub-Registrar shall file the
same in his Book No.1:
Provided that where such instrument relates to immovable property in several
districts, shall forward the same to the Sub-Registrars concerned, under
intimation to the Registrar of every district in which any part of such property
is situate.”.
(By order of the Governor)

G. JAYACHANDRAN,
Secretary to Government,
Law Department.

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE DIRECTOR OF STATIONERY AND PRINTING, CHENNAI
ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2012-14.
[R. Dis. No. 197/2009.
[Price: Re. 0.80 Paise.

©
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
2022

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
No. 288]

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

CHENNAI, FRIDAY, MAY 20, 2022
Vaikasi 6, Subakiruthu, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2053

Part IV—Section 2
Tamil Nadu Acts and Ordinances
The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the
assent of the President on the 7th May 2022 and is hereby published
for general information:—
ACT No. 24 OF 2022.
An Act further to amend the Registration Act, 1908 in its application
to the State of Tamil Nadu.
BE it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of
Tamil Nadu in the Seventy-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Tamil Nadu
Amendment) Act, 2021.

Short title,
extent and
commencement.

(2) It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.
(3) It shall come into force on such date as the State Government
may, by notification, appoint.
Central Act XVI
of 1908.

2. To section 32 of the Registration Act, 1908 (hereinafter referred to
as the principal Act), the following proviso shall be added, namely:—

Amendment of
section 32.

“Provided that the State Government may, by notification, specify
such documents which may be presented through electronic means.”.
3. For section 32-A of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
substituted, namely:—
“32-A. Registration by electronic means.—In cases, where the
document is presented for registration by electronic means, the procedure
for its presentation, appearance for admission, endorsements, manner of
fixing signature and seal, mode of payment of registration fees and other
fees and such other process, shall be such as may be prescribed by rules
made in this behalf.
IV-2 Ex. (288)

[121 ]

Substitution of
section 32-A.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

122

32-AA. Compulsory affixing of photograph, etc.— Every
person presenting any document at the proper registration office under
section 32 shall affix his passport size photograph and fingerprints to the
document:
Provided that where such document relates to the transfer of ownership
of immovable property, the passport size photograph and fingerprints of
each buyer and seller of such property mentioned in the document shall
also be affixed to the document.”.
Amendment of
section 52.

4. In section 52 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), in clause (a),
for the expression “under section 32-A”, the expression “under
section 32-AA” shall be substituted.

Amendment of
section 69.

5. In section 69 of the principal Act, in sub-section (1), after clause (gg),
the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—
“(ggg) regulating the procedure for presentation of documents,
appearance for admission, endorsements, manner of fixing signature and
seal, mode of payment of registration fees and other fees and such other
process, when the document is presented by electronic means.”.
(By Order of the Governor)

C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,
Secretary to Government (Legislation),
Law Department.

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF STATIONERY AND PRINTING, CHENNAI
ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

[Regd. No. TN/CCN/467/2012-14.
[R. Dis. No. 197/2009.
[Price: Rs. 1.60 Paise.

©
GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU
2022

TAMIL NADU
GOVERNMENT GAZETTE
EXTRAORDINARY
No. 428]

PUBLISHED BY AUTHORITY

CHENNAI, TUESDAY, AUGUST 16, 2022
Aadi 31, Subakiruthu, Thiruvalluvar Aandu–2053

Part IV—Section 2
Tamil Nadu Acts and Ordinances

The following Act of the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly received the
assent of the President on the 6th August 2022 and is hereby published for
general information:—

ACT No. 41 OF 2022.
An Act further to amend the Registration Act, 1908 in its
application to the State of Tamil Nadu
Be it enacted by the Legislative Assembly of the State of Tamil Nadu in the
Seventy-second Year of the Republic of India as follows:—
1. (1) This Act may be called the Registration (Tamil Nadu Second
Amendment) Act, 2021.

Short title,
extent and
commencement.

(2) It extends to the whole of the State of Tamil Nadu.
(3) It shall come into force at once.
Central Act XVI
of 1908.

2. In section 2 of the Registration Act, 1908 (hereinafter referred to as the
principal Act), after clause (5), the following clause shall be inserted, namely:—

Amendment of
section 2.

“(5-A) “forged document” shall have the same meaning assigned to it in
section 470 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860;”.
3. After section 22-A of the principal Act, the following section shall be
inserted, namely:—
“22-B. Refusal to register forged documents and other documents
prohibited by law.— Notwithstanding anything contained in this Act, the
registering officer shall refuse to register the following documents, namely:—
(1) forged document;
(2) document relating to transaction, which is prohibited by any
Central Act or State Act for the time being in force;
IV-2 Ex. (428)

[225]

Insertion of new
section 22-B.

226

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY
(3) document relating to transfer of immovable property by way of sale,
gift, lease or otherwise, which is attached permanently or provisionally by a
competent authority under any Central Act or State Act for the time being in
force or any Court or Tribunal;
specify.”.

Insertion of new
sections 77-A
and 77-B.

(4) any other document as the State Government may, by notification,

4. After section 77 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
inserted, namely:—
“77-A. Cancellation of registered documents in certain cases.—
(1) The Registrar, either suo moto or on a complaint received from any person,
is of the opinion, that registration of a document is made in contravention of
section 22-A or section 22-B, shall issue a notice to the executant and all the
parties to the document and parties to subsequent documents, if any, and
all other persons who, in the opinion of the Registrar, may be affected by the
cancellation of the document, to show cause as to why the registration of the
document shall not be cancelled. On consideration of reply, if any received
therefor, the Registrar may cancel the registration of the document and cause to
enter such cancellation in the relevant books and indexes.
(2) The power under sub-section (1) may also be exercised by the
Inspector General of Registration.
77-B. Appeal.- (1) Any person aggrieved by an order of the Registrar
under sub-section (1) of section 77-A may prefer an appeal to the Inspector
General of Registration within thirty days from the date of cancellation of
the document and the Inspector General of Registration shall pass an order
confirming, modifying or cancelling the order of the Registrar.
(2) In the case of an order passed by the Inspector General of
Registration under sub-section (2) of section 77-A, an appeal shall lie to the
State Government within thirty days from the date of the order.”.

Insertion of new
sections 81-A
and 81-B.

5. After section 81 of the principal Act, the following sections shall be
inserted, namely:—
“81-A. Penalty for registering documents in contravention of
sections 22-A and 22-B.—(1) Every registering officer appointed under this Act
and every person employed in his office for the purposes of this Act, who, being
charged with registering the documents presented for registration under this Act,
registers documents in contravention of section 22-A or section 22-B, shall be
punishable with imprisonment for a term which may be extended to three years,
or with fine, or with both.
(2) Nothing contained in this section shall apply in the case of registration
of a document made in good faith.
Explanation.— For the purpose of this sub-section, the expression “good
faith” means any act believed or done by a person in good faith with due care,
caution and sense of responsibility or by mistake of fact believing himself justified
by law under section 79 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860.
81-B. Offences by companies.—(1) Where an offence under this Act
has been committed, by a company, every person who, at the time the offence
was committed, was in-charge of, and was responsible to, the company for
the conduct of the business of the company, as well as the company, shall be
deemed to be guilty of the offence and shall be liable to be proceeded against
and punished accordingly:

Central Act XLV of
1860.

TAMIL NADU GOVERNMENT GAZETTE EXTRAORDINARY

227

Provided that nothing contained in this sub-section shall render any such
person liable to any punishment, if he proves that the offence was committed
without his knowledge or that he had exercised all due diligence to prevent the
commission of such offence.
(2) Notwithstanding anything contained in sub-section (1), where
any offence under this Act has been committed by a company and it is proved
that the offence, has been committed with the consent or connivance of, or it
attributable to, any neglect on the part of any director, manager, secretary or
other officer of the company, such director, manager, secretary or other officer
shall be deemed to be guilty of that offence and shall be, liable to be proceeded
against and punished accordingly.
Explanation.— For the purposes of this section,—
(a)
“company” means any body corporate and includes a firm or
other association of individuals, and
(b)

“director” in relation to a firm means a partner in the firm.”.
(By order of the Governor)
C. GOPI RAVIKUMAR,				
Secretary to Government (Legislation),			
Law Department.

PRINTED AND PUBLISHED BY THE COMMISSIONER OF STATIONERY AND PRINTING, CHENNAI
ON BEHALF OF THE GOVERNMENT OF TAMIL NADU

